LOCAL government minister July Moyo has commended the role played by the private sector in helping communities affected by natural disasters and the Covid-19 pandemic.  This comes as a number of families in the Eastern parts of Zimbabwe were left devastated by the effects of Cyclone Idai and Tropical Storm Chalane in the last three years.  It also comes as most Zimbabweans’ sources of incomes were interrupted by the lockdowns imposed by the health authorities to curb the spread of Covid-19.  Speaking during a donation by the African Development Bank (AfDB) in Harare yesterday, Moyo said the private sector is helping the government restore the livelihoods of the affected communities with infrastructural developments.  AfDB in partnership with UNOPS donated to the government two Land Cruiser SUVs, an eight-tonne Powerstar truck and an assortment of tools and equipment to the tune of $137 276.  This was the second tranche of support the government has received from the bank amounting to nearly US$1 million.   Previously, the government got equipment to be used by the Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company (ZETDC) valued at US$40, 332, while the Meteorological Services Department got solar panels valued at US$3 080 and the Department of Civil Protection received goods including generators, mobile phones and stationery worth US$13 184. 88.  “The government, with support from partners, made significant strides in rehabilitating 350 houses in Chimanimani where 54 houses are in Ward 8, 107 houses in Ward 21, 76 houses in Ward 22 and 113 houses in Ward 23.   “United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)-China $2 million facility has seen 237 houses rehabilitated and ready for commissioning.  “At West End Farm, where 220 internally displaced households are to be resettled, 55 housing units of the targeted 220 have been constructed.   “The government is targeting 105 housing units by the end of June 2021. The internally displaced households were allocated 6 000 square metre stands and all the legal processes are now complete,” Moyo said.   AfDB country manager Moono Mupotola said the donations would bolster smooth execution of disaster risk management in the cyclone-affected areas.