WARRIORS striker Tino Kadewere will have everything to work for and impress the new Dutch coach Peter Bosz who was unveiled as the new Olympique Lyon coach on a two-year deal at the weekend. The 57-year-old former Bayer Leverkusen, Borussia Dortmund and Ajax coach takes over from Rudi Garcia, whose contract was not extended after Lyon finished fourth in the just-completed Ligue 1 season. Bosz guided Leverkusen to the 2020 German Cup final but was fired in March as they slid down the table.  He led Ajax to the 2017 Europa League final that they lost to Manchester United. He was, however, dismissed by both Leverkusen and Dortmund and his appointment marks a change of strategy for Lyon president Jean Michel Aulas, who has never before appointed a recently-sacked coach. Lyon’s initial target had been Christophe Galtier, who this week left Lille after coaching them to a surprise Ligue 1 title ahead of Qatar-backed Paris Saint-Germain. Lyon last won the French Ligue 1 title in 2008 and will play in the Europa League next season. Bosz is credited for favouring young and ambitious players. “I have an offensive, attractive way of playing. We play for the supporters and not for ourselves. Much will depend on the players,” Bosz said on his appointment. “I can’t talk about a system right now, I have to get to know the players well first. I like attacking football, smart players with good technical ability. I have the experience of working with young players, not only with Ajax but also at Leverkusen. It’s a question of quality. “If young people have the necessary qualities, I’m not afraid to let them play. The academy is important, there are a lot of good young players in Lyon. I’m very curious to see how things are going at the academy, but there are already some very good young players in the squad. “It’s possible to play offensively, attractively and win titles. For that, we need good organisation on the pitch.  “The most important thing is defending of course, you have to set up a very efficient and organised team. If you concede a foul when everyone is in front of the ball, it’s dangerous. “We have to train, and take the time to work together, but it is possible. If you are successful, it is a great thing to win by playing attacking football.”