SALLY Mugabe Hospital has recorded 100 percent live births from caesarean deliveries over the past one month after a bank renovated the maternity wing and re-equipped a second theatre at the institution. The maternity ward matron and nursing officer, Gertrude Pedzisai, said caesarean operations were previously a major contributor to infant deaths. “The ward was operating with only one theatre so we used to record around 30 live births per week, but they have now shot up to over 60 with every case now being attended to whether emergency or pre-booked. “We had a challenge completing our caesarean section elective list and if there was an emergency referred from anywhere, we would attend to it first and push the elective list to a later date and this was a drain on our emotions because we would have to postpone procedures that needed to be done. “Now with two theatres functional, we are working 24/7 and are able to complete our elective lists from morning until around 1600 hours then attend to emergencies,” Pedzisai said. She said antenatal consultations, which were previously held twice per week, were now being conducted daily. “The re-equipping of Theatre One by Stanbic Bank has definitely led to a big reduction in the loss of lives and the number of patients is also growing and we get satisfaction in providing care for women in Harare with high-risk pregnancies with the help of the best surgical facilities we can for the women who require our care. This donation has helped improve the patient pathway and experience,” Pedzisai said. In April this year, Stanbic Bank donated theatre equipment worth US$37 000 and refurbished the recovery room at a cost of $2 million under its Corporate Social Investment flagship health initiative, Usizo-Ruyamuro, launched in 2019 The bank’s head of brand and marketing, Palmer Mugavha, said they were pleased by the contribution they made to the institution. “Usizo-Ruyamuro was structured such that it plays a pivotal role in addressing key health challenges faced by the nation and the increase in the number of deliveries gives us satisfaction. “The fact that all caesarean procedures are now being undertaken vindicates our decision and we are glad to have played such a significant part in this,” Mugavha said.