A NATIONAL University of Science and Technology (Nust) final year student reportedly committed suicide by throwing himself in a dam in Mvurwi at the weekend.  Alpha Kayeruza, who was finishing his Biology and Biochemistry degree, reportedly jumped into the dam on Saturday and was expected to be buried at the family’s rural home at Munera Farm cemetery yesterday.  Nust Students Representative Council (SRC) information officer Desire Kateyera confirmed the incident, saying the institution is devastated by the untimely passing on of their colleague.  “It is with great sadness that we received the news about the passing on of… Kayeruza.  “We are devastated as students and the institution at large. Kayeruza is alleged to have committed suicide by throwing himself into a dam in Mvurwi,” Kateyera said.  He urged students to speak out if they have something bothering them to avoid depression that may lead to committing suicide.  “We urge students to find someone to talk to wherever they have challenges.  “Counselling services are also available at the Division of Student Affairs and the Nust Residence just near the Nust clinic.  “We urge fellow students to make use of these and save their precious lives.  “Remember mental illness can be invisible.  “You can have anxiety but still sound confident. You can be depressed but still smile and make jokes.  “You can be suicidal but appear ‘very fine’.  “Be wary of these and make sure you share what could be affecting your mental health with someone,” Kateyera added.  One of his colleagues described Kayeruza as a soft-spoken person, who loved going to church.  “He was a determined young man, who did his school and attended on campus church services.  “Some people even nicknamed him ‘Evangelist’ because of his zeal for God. We are shocked about his untimely death,” said the colleague, who declined to be named.  Social media was awash with messages from his classmates, who mourned their colleague, who was expected to graduate this year.