A HARARE magistrate’s court has dropped five charges against former Cabinet minister Ignatius Chombo who is accused of grabbing State land and creating residential stands before going onto fleece home seekers.  Chombo appeared in court facing fraud and five counts of criminal abuse of duty as a public officer after his arrest following the Uchena Commission of inquiry into State land.  Through his lawyer Lovemore Madhuku, the former Local Government minister made an application challenging his placement on remand arguing there is no nexus between him and the alleged offences.  The application was successful as the court yesterday dropped five counts against Chombo, who will now only answer to the fraud allegations.  It is alleged that in 2000 and 2015, Chombo fleeced desperate home seekers by making them deposit money into the Ignatius Chombo Housing Cooperative bank account for land development fees and the money was not remitted for the purpose.  It was also alleged that he misrepresented to the people that if they deposited money into the cooperative account, he would allocate residential stands at Kia Ora Farm under Zvimba Rural District, but that did not happen with $900 000 being prejudiced.  Chombo argued that the police had not done thorough investigations, distancing himself from the allegations.  He also distanced himself from the alleged bank account.  “They have not named the amounts that have not been stated and given that the alleged offence occurred over a period of 15 years, it is strange how the State does not have an amount.  “In regards to the bank account, that account is not registered in my name nor am I the person who opened the account nor am I a signatory,” he argued.  It was alleged that Chombo as Local Government minister allocated himself 125 commonage stands at Haydon Farm under Zvimba Rural District.  Chombo was accused of allocating himself five low density stands at Philadelphia Farm in Harare which were surrendered by Misheck Mangwende as commonage stands.  Further allegations were that Chombo as minister took stands at Carrick Creagh Farm in Harare and registered them into the names of his company without paying anything.  The companies are Comverol Enterprises, Cayford and Cavford (Pvt) (Ltd).  “He was further accused of handing acquired State land at Order Farm in Harare to Sensene Investments.  Claims were that he abused his office by instructing officials in the Local Government ministry to sign a deed of settlement with Pinnacle Holdings without Cabinet authority.  He argued that the State has no case against him as they have not produced deeds to show that he owns the alleged land.  “He also denies being anywhere near the alleged companies.  “The State insists I own these companies but no investigation could have been done. The first company Comverol Enterprises, I’m neither a director nor a company shareholder,” he also argued.