LAW Society of Zimbabwe vice-president Rumbidzai Matambo says women should aim for leadership positions and not wait for the quota system where seats are reserved for them.     Zimbabwe adopted the quota system in terms of the country’s Constitution which demands women representation in Parliament as well as the 30 percent quota system agreed upon by Southern African Development Community member states.     The quota system ensures women participation in politics and other leadership positions.     Speaking to the Daily News at the weekend, Matambo said the legal profession was setting the bar in terms of promoting women participation in influential positions.     “We have come a long way from where we were traditionally to where we are now. Female leaders are recognised and respected for their capabilities rather than shunned or ignored or not taken seriously.      “I think the legal profession has been leading in respecting women and taking them seriously as professionals rather than second class citizens, which was the traditional role,” she said.     Matambo, who was recently elected to deputise current president Wellington Magaya at the helm of the lawyers’ body, said times had changed and women should not wait to be made token leaders but prove their capabilities and be appointed on merit and not on gender lines.     “This is not the first time that a woman has been in the law society presidium, we have had Beatrice Mtetwa and Vimbai Nyemba. I believe women do very well at whatever they set their minds to do.      “We have the confidence, capabilities and qualifications and I urge others to work hard and show that they can do it on merit rather than on the quota system or on the basis of gender,” she said.     Matambo also said that she had the responsibility to inspire other young female lawyers to take up leadership roles in society.     “We encounter stereotypes in practice, where certain clients find it uncomfortable to be represented by a woman but I found out that once you prove your… capabilities … to deliver on the terms you have agreed on, people start respecting you, not as a man or woman but as a capable lawyer,” Matambo said.