THE majority of MDC legislators led by Douglas Mwonzora last Tuesday joined hands with Zanu PF and voted for the passage of the controversial Constitutional Amendment No2 Bill in the National Assembly perceived by other opposition parties and civic society as meant to consolidate President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s power.     The Bill, among other things, seeks to remove the presidential running mate clause, change the retirement age of Chief Justice and his or her deputy from 65 years to 70 and alter devolution as enunciated in the supreme law.     But in an interview with the Daily News on Sunday Senior Staff Writer Blessings Mashaya, Mwonzora denied colluding with Zanu PF and insisted the Bill was an omnibus and his party voted for its passage because of four amendments it supported.     Besides the Bill, Mwonzora also spoke on attempts to oust him as president and allegations of fraud levelled against him.     Below are the excerpts.     Q: Your legislators were divided when they voted for Constitution Amendment Number 2 Bill on Tuesday. What is your party position on this issue?     A: Out of the six issues in the Constitutional Amendment No2 Bill, MDC supports four, including the women and youth quotas, quota for women in the councils and devolution.     Those (MPs from the MDC) who voted yes were voting for the women’s quota, the youth quota, the quota of women in council and devolution.      Those who voted no from our camp were voting no to the running mate and the judges’ clause. We think their behaviour was reasonable.     The MDC does not support unnecessary amendments of the Constitution.      It is our view that any amendments must be preceded by wide consultations and dialogue with stakeholders.     We also think that consultations cannot be made to solve internal party issues like what the running mate clause does to apparently resolve the issues of succession within a political party.     Q: So, as a party you were in a catch 22 situation?     A: Our MPs were faced with a genuine dilemma and so was the party.      At the stage the bill had reached, it had to be voted as a whole; in other words it was indivisible so the choices that faced each individual MP was rejecting everything in the bill and in the process rejecting the clauses the party is comfortable with or accepting the entire bill and also in the process accepting the running mate clause and the judges clause.     It was a genuine dilemma that MPs were faced with and, therefore, they voted using their conscience.      Those who voted for it were voting for the clauses we agree with and those who voted against were voting against the running mate and the judges clause.     Q: I understand the party is supposed to go for its ordinary congress this year, have you started the preparations?     A: We have started making preparations for the ordinary congress and we will announce the date soon.      We need to settle the leadership question within the party as a matter of urgency so as to concentrate on the external and people issues more fully.     Q: When are you likely to have the congress?     A: Our national council to be convened soon will come up with the dates of the various congresses at branch, ward, district, provincial and the national levels.     Q: One of your party members has reported you to the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission (Zacc), accusing you of stealing over $6 million from the MDC. What’s your position on this issue?     A: This is the work of internal opponents who were irked by my victory at the extraordinary congress on December 27th last year. They have teamed up with some members of the opposition and the G40.     They are sponsoring and exploiting this desperate youth to try to achieve their political objectives. They hope that I would be arrested so that I will be out of the political scene.     Our unique political style and strategy has confounded them.     The allegations are totally preposterous, false and malicious. They wanted to secure my arrest before congress so that I would not assume leadership of the MDC-T.     They reported the matter to the police and even tried to buy my arrest. But law officers work on evidence and this is what these people don’t have.      Some of them tried to accuse me of theft last year only for acting president Thokozani Khupe to write a letter exonerating me.     It is totally impossible for one person to take money as much as $6 million from a party with as elaborate accounting and signing procedures as the MDC-T. But their sordid efforts will simply be defeated by the truth.     Q: On many occasions you said dialogue is needed for the country to move forward. What are you doing to kick start this process?     A: It is clear that dialogue is the only viable political strategy in Zimbabwe today. It is painless, sustainable and if properly done will generate mutually beneficial results for the participants.     Zimbabwe is rich with historical data on the success of dialogue in resolving national issues. The liberation war ended with dialogue at Lancaster House that brought independence.     The Gukurahundi ended with dialogue culminating in the signing of the Unity Accord between Zanu PF and PF Zapu.     The 2008 election violence and pestilence ended with dialogue that produced the Global Political Agreement that brought about the Government of National Unity.     As the MDC-T we are in favour of dialogue that is inclusive, genuine and unconditional.     What we have done as the party is to conscientise our people on the need for dialogue in Zimbabwe.      We have also sold this idea to our colleagues in the opposition and to Zanu PF.       We have held meetings with some stakeholders in civil society and traditional leaders on this issue.      We have discovered that dialogue is a very popular proposition in Zimbabwe and our campaign has been a huge success.     Q: What kind of dialogue do you want?     A: The dialogue we want is one whose main aim is to improve the lives of the Zimbabwean people. The dialogue must be inclusive, genuine and unconditional.     If dialogue is not made inclusive, it has the danger of generating an elite pact benefitting the political protagonists only and not the masses of Zimbabwe.     Q: Do you want an inclusive government?     A: We want an outcome that the Zimbabwean masses want. It should be an outcome that benefits our people in that it must redress the issues of poverty, the economy, unemployment, electoral reforms, including the diaspora vote, ending Zimbabwe’s international isolation and ostracisation, issues of contested legitimacy, polarisation, the security of the Zimbabwean person and human rights issues, among others.     Whether the dialogue results in a government of national unity (GNU) is really up to Zimbabweans. Whether Zimbabweans want a GNU or not is up to them.     Q: We are approaching 2023 elections, do you think Zanu PF will agree to have dialogue and what is the impact of not having dialogue?     A: I don’t think that anybody who has the Zimbabwean people at heart will refuse dialogue. President(Emmerson) Mnangagwa has spoken in favour of dialogue and so has many people within his party. I think Zanu PF has a lot to gain from dialogue.         Q: If Mnangagwa insists that all political parties must join Political Actors Dialogue (Polad), what are you going to do?      A: Polad is a good starting point towards dialogue.      However, as the name clearly shows it is confined to political actors and, therefore, excludes other stakeholders.     Its constitutive document is a code of conduct which clearly states that for one to qualify to be in Polad they must have contested the 2018 elections for the office of president.      To that end, I don’t qualify to be in Polad. If I were to go into Polad today, I would not have any status.      If I don’t have a status, it follows that my submissions will equally have no status.     I am sure the president is aware of this problem, which is not my making.      From the pronouncements made so far, I think we are both in agreement that there must be dialogue. I believe that it’s a question of political will. And where there is a will, there is a way.     Q: The opposition is deeply divided ahead of the 2023 elections; do you think you stand a chance against Zanu PF?     A: I am a terribly underestimated character. The current MDC-T is also terribly underestimated. That is the best position to be from a strategic point of view. From the statistics on the ground we are gaining while all opposition is losing ground.     Our teams who were doing restructuring in Harare pulled amazing crowds and this confounded our critics.     Some of the leaders who speak disparagingly against my prospects have lost party internal elections against me in the past.      So, if I defeated them in elections at a smaller scale, why can’t I repeat the feat at a larger scale?     The amount of hate you see on social media is coming from people who know and have worked with me for years.      If I was as weak as they say, they wouldn’t be spending so much time and energy in negative campaign against my party and myself.     Q: Have you ever engaged your former colleague Nelson Chamisa so that you can find  common ground ahead of the 2023 elections?     A: I have tried to talk peace with my brother Chamisa with a view to unite the Zimbabwean people and solve the national problems, but these efforts have been rebuffed by his team and himself.     They have resorted to denigrate and humiliate me on social media.      Unfortunately, they are under the influence of the G40s who specialise in hate politics.