GROWING abuse of social media platforms to spread falsehoods and to character assassinate individuals is nauseating.     Recently, Home Affairs minister Kazembe Kazembe said social media abuse had become a threat to national security and called for urgent enactment of the Cyber Security and Cyber Crime Bill to deal with the scourge.     “In the Zimbabwean context, social media has also been used as a tool for disturbing internal security.     “As you may all be aware, the country has in the recent past witnessed the spread of fake news, as well as attacks on several government officials via social media.     “In order to address this threat, there is a need for the regulation of social media through the enactment of relevant laws,” Kazembe said.     Social media must be used to build a nation, not destroy it.     There is very little that a government or a leader of a political party can do to stop people from using social media. People can evade the ban by using pseudo names.     All that the authorities can do for now, is to encourage people to use this mode of communication constructively.     If put to good use, social media can do wonders in the development agenda of a country.     Likewise, social media in the hands of irresponsible citizens can destroy the nation and innocent people.     In other words, social media in general can make or break a targeted entity.     Social media was negatively used to fuel the so-called revolution popularised as the Arab Spring in countries such as Libya, Tunisia, Egypt and others.     Leaders were undemocratically ousted with the assistance of the West. Until today, these countries have known no peace.     In the advent of the deadly Covid-19, we have witnessed social media being used as a tool of disinformation.     Fake information is spread on social media discouraging vaccination as dangerous. Fake deaths are also announced with recklessness.     Harsh laws need to be enacted to stop such abuses.     Users must be responsible and stop engaging in disseminating falsehoods.     The Cyber Security and Cyber Crime Bill must be fast-tracked in Parliament and used to punish abusers of social media.     Of late, social media is being used to dupe people out of lots of money and property. Criminals are now on the prowl and using social media to con unsuspecting citizens.     Action has to be taken now, ruthlessly to end this scourge.