More than 120 dairy farmers from all the country’s 10 provinces received in-calf heifers from the Transforming Zimbabwe’s Dairy Value Chain (TranZDVC) project at Zengea Farm, Marirangwe in Seke District at the weekend.     TranZDVC, a four-year project bankrolled by European Union (EU), seeks to boost milk production by increasing the participation of small-scale farmers, women and youth in the dairy value chain. It is being spearheaded by We Effect Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe Association of Dairy Farmers (ZADF), Zimbabwe Farmers Union (ZFU) and Zimbabwe Dairy Industry Trust.     Guest of honour at the event, Lands, Agriculture, Fisheries, Water and Rural Resettlement minister Anxious Masuka, urged the beneficiaries, who included 59 women, to fully make use of the 147 in-calf heifers availed by TranZDVC.     “I urge all the dairy farmers who are beneficiaries of these in-calf heifers … to maximise the opportunity presented to them by the TranZDVC project and the government of Zimbabwe to scale up their milk production endeavours.     “I encourage the farmers to ensure adequate funding, animal health and all good animal husbandry practices to sustain these heifers to significantly contribute Zimbabwe’s milk production,” said Masuka, in a speech read on his behalf by his deputy Vangelis Haritatos.     The minister added that more still needed to be done to increase the country’s milk production from the current 76 million litres to the required annual demand of 130 million litres.     “The current dairy herd in Zimbabwe comprises 27 053 pure breeds and 11 947 cross breeds, giving a total of 39 000 dairy cows in Zimbabwe. Of these, 19 000 cows are milking and Zimbabwe is currently producing 6, 7 million litres of milk per month, translating to over 76 million litres a year,” he said.     Speaking at the same event, We Effect Zimbabwe country representative, Lucy Makaza-Mazingi hailed the TranZDVC project as a good collaborative effort.     “What we project today is a portrait, carved with strands of purpose from different contributors that include farmers, the government, donors, private sector, implementing partners, processors and integrators,” said Makaza-Mazingi.     The EU is funding the TranZDVC to the tune of seven million euros under the Zimbabwe Agricultural Growth Programme (ZAGP) as part of efforts  to boost milk production. The initiative aims to address the root causes of underperformance in the dairy value chain (DVC) in Zimbabwe by strengthening the linkages between production, processing and financing.     The project also includes a matching facility where participating dairy farmers will buy a heifer and get one free. Under this initiative, TranZDVC will acquire 500 heifers and 8 000 sexed semen which will be matched by participating milk processors such as Dendairy, Dairibord Zimbabwe, Kefalos, Prodairy and Nestle Zimbabwe.