THE MR and Miss Albinism Zimbabwe pageant, which seeks to end stigma and discrimination of people living with albinism, will take place on Wednesday at Stephen Margolis Resort on the outskirts of Harare.     Pageant director and founder Brenda Mudzimu said 16 models are expected to feature in the virtual event which was originally set for March 26 in Harare but had to be postponed due to Covid-19 national lockdown measures.     “Mr and Miss Albinism Zimbabwe winners will fly to Victoria Falls courtesy of Fastjet. Of course we would have wanted the prizes to be bigger but that is what we could put together. The important thing is that the winners should raise awareness on issues to do with albinism,” said Mudzimu.     In line with Covid-19 regulations, only a few invited guests will be allowed to attend the physical event.     “We are doing this to curb the spread of Covid-19. As much as we would have wanted to attract a big crowd and raise money, the reality is that we have to do it by the book,” said Mudzimu.     The last edition of the pageant was held on May 26 in 2019. The event was won by 18-year-old model Ayanda Candice Sibanda who beat several other contestants to land the award.      In 2018, University of Zimbabwe student Sithembiso Mutukura was crowned the queen.      With about 70 000 of Zimbabwe’s estimated 16 million people born with albinism, according to government figures, the organisers believe the pageant is a useful platform to fight discrimination and stigma surrounding the condition.     “People living with albinism have an array of problems they suffer which are different from other people. Some of these problems, including stigma and discrimination, are caused by ignorance in society. As a result, we hope the pageant addresses these differences, making the society come to terms with the condition,” Mudzimu said.     In some parts of the continent, people living with albinism are hunted down for superstitious reasons.      In recent years, the killing of albinos was reported mostly in Malawi, Burundi and Tanzania, according to Amnesty International.