ZIMBABWE Power Company (ZPC) and Hwange Electricity Supply Company (Hesco) have embarked on a massive housing project after they were recently allocated a piece of land by the Hwange Local Board (HLB).      HLB town secretary Ndumiso Mdlalose told the Daily News at the weekend that the local authority’s efforts were all directed towards reducing the housing backlog in the coal mining town.      “We are quite aware of the importance of this particular project and we are partnering these two companies in making sure it’s completed possibly with less hitches or none. Where we are required or mandated to action we will do so. Our commitment to having this project taking off is unquestionable,” he said.      Mdlalose said the two power companies are set to construct about 600 houses at Empumalanga Phase 7, one of the biggest housing projects in Hwange.      ZPC is expected to relocate its entire Ingagula suburb, which has over 500 households, whose location falls foul of the usual wind direction, leaving the suburb at the risk of dangerous emissions coming from the power generation process.      Mdlalose further said the power utility has indicated that they will start construction of the houses this year.      Hesco is jointly owned by ZPC and Sinohydro Corporation of China as an implementing Special Purpose Vehicle for the Hwange Thermal Power Station expansion project.      Other entities, which were allocated residential stands in Empumalanga Phase 7 are FBC Bank, Zambezi Gas, South Mining (Private) Limited and OK Zimbabwe.     Initially an agreement had been reached by all beneficiaries to contribute towards servicing of all the stands but the two power utilities decided to pull out of the arrangement due to lack of commitment by other parties.      HLB town engineer Philip Nguni said the local authority has since engaged a company to construct an access road into the area designated for the housing project.     “The contractor’s scope includes various roads managed by HLB.      However, the two-kilometre road from the existing Phase 3 Road to the ZPC/Hesco stands would be given priority in light of the urgency of the housing development project,” Nguni said.