DYNAMOS coach Tonderai Ndiraya feels he has laid a good foundation for his team to succeed ahead of the 2021 season after seeing his charges beat arch rivals Highlanders to lift the Independence Cup here yesterday.     Goals from new boy Trevor Mavhunga and an own goal by Bosso defender Peter Muduhwa ensured the Glamour Boys have now won the Uhuru Cup a record nine times, while Highlanders have eight titles, with CAPS United a distant third with four titles.     The win was a huge plus for Ndiraya, who is leading a massive rebuilding exercise ahead of the new season.     The match marked the return of domestic football in the country after a year of inactivity due to the Covid-19 pandemic.     Both teams struggled due to lack of match fitness, having only trained for less than a week after being handpicked to participate in the tournament to mark the country’s 41st Independence.     However, Ndiraya saw some positives as they await the commencement of the 2021 season which has tentatively been set for next month.     “I’m happy it’s a cup, a special cup for that matter. We are celebrating the Independence of our country and I think that’s what is important,” Ndiraya said after the match.       “We take confidence from the win we got today and continue from there. I’m happy for the team and for the fans. I think they have seen their team. It’s a new team which I hope going forward will gel and play good football.     “It was a good display, we were very solid in defence, and we restricted them to a few chances. What was important was the platform we were afforded today (yesterday) to parade our team. Of course there is room for improvement in certain areas.     “I’m confident we can improve and become a strong team going forward. The foundation is there and what is needed now is to work on ensuring we become a competitive unit. We are a team which is under construction having brought in several new players.       “You could clearly see our players are not fit yet and without really preparing we played a serious match. You could see some signs of what we are trying to do when we attack and when we defend.     “With more practice and training I think we will come good in several aspects of the game. In terms of transition you could also see that our players are still slow. But the good thing is that the foundation is there.”     Ndiraya’s counterpart Mandla Mpofu bemoaned the two errors that cost them the match but he said he was impressed by his team’s performance.     “It was a good practice match. Of course it wasn’t a result oriented match but when you play Dynamos it’s never easy. I’m happy I have a feel of how it will look like. I’m happy with the ball retention, circulation, movements, it was just unbelievable.     “Unfortunately, there are things that we can’t control; we could have avoided the two goals that we conceded. The first goal, Ariel (Sibanda) I think should have done better. The second goal, there was poor communication between the two senior players.     “But besides that, the team we are building is going to be unbelievable.      “You could see there is continuity. Of course we brought in some new players but they are coming to complement what we already have.”     Ndiraya should have been encouraged by some of new players like Shadreck Nyahwa, Frank Makarati, Tanaka Chidhobha, Mavhunga and King Nadolo following their polished performances.     For Highlanders Nqobizitha Masuku, Ray Lunga, Winston Mhango, second half substitutes Joel Ngodzo and Adrian Silla should give them reason to believe.       The Glamour Boys drew first blood after only six minutes when Mavhunga’s speculative shot somehow caught Bosso goalkeeper unawares and went in.     They doubled their lead five minutes into the second half when Muduhwa directed the ball into his own net under pressure to clear his lines having failed to properly communicate with his goalkeeper.     Highlanders…………….. (0) 0     Dynamos………………… (1) 2     DYNAMOS coach Tonderai Ndiraya feels he has laid a good foundation for his team to succeed ahead of the 2021 season after seeing his charges beat arch rivals Highlanders to lift the Independence Cup here yesterday.     Goals from new boy Trevor Mavhunga and an own goal by Bosso defender Peter Muduhwa ensured the Glamour Boys have now won the Uhuru Cup a record nine times, while Highlanders have eight titles, with CAPS United a distant third with four titles.     The win was a huge plus for Ndiraya, who is leading a massive rebuilding exercise ahead of the new season.     The match marked the return of domestic football in the country after a year of inactivity due to the Covid-19 pandemic.     Both teams struggled due to lack of match fitness, having only trained for less than a week after being handpicked to participate in the tournament to mark the country’s 41st Independence.     However, Ndiraya saw some positives as they await the commencement of the 2021 season which has tentatively been set for next month.     “I’m happy it’s a cup, a special cup for that matter. We are celebrating the Independence of our country and I think that’s what is important,” Ndiraya said after the match.       “We take confidence from the win we got today and continue from there. I’m happy for the team and for the fans. I think they have seen their team. It’s a new team which I hope going forward will gel and play good football.     “It was a good display, we were very solid in defence, and we restricted them to a few chances. What was important was the platform we were afforded today (yesterday) to parade our team. Of course there is room for improvement in certain areas.     “I’m confident we can improve and become a strong team going forward. The foundation is there and what is needed now is to work on ensuring we become a competitive unit. We are a team which is under construction having brought in several new players.       “You could clearly see our players are not fit yet and without really preparing we played a serious match. You could see some signs of what we are trying to do when we attack and when we defend.     “With more practice and training I think we will come good in several aspects of the game. In terms of transition you could also see that our players are still slow. But the good thing is that the foundation is there.”     Ndiraya’s counterpart Mandla Mpofu bemoaned the two errors that cost them the match but he said he was impressed by his team’s performance.     “It was a good practice match. Of course it wasn’t a result oriented match but when you play Dynamos it’s never easy. I’m happy I have a feel of how it will look like. I’m happy with the ball retention, circulation, movements, it was just unbelievable.     “Unfortunately, there are things that we can’t control; we could have avoided the two goals that we conceded. The first goal, Ariel (Sibanda) I think should have done better. The second goal, there was poor communication between the two senior players.     “But besides that, the team we are building is going to be unbelievable.      “You could see there is continuity. Of course we brought in some new players but they are coming to complement what we already have.”     Ndiraya should have been encouraged by some of new players like Shadreck Nyahwa, Frank Makarati, Tanaka Chidhobha, Mavhunga and King Nadolo following their polished performances.     For Highlanders Nqobizitha Masuku, Ray Lunga, Winston Mhango, second half substitutes Joel Ngodzo and Adrian Silla should give them reason to believe.       The Glamour Boys drew first blood after only six minutes when Mavhunga’s speculative shot somehow caught Bosso goalkeeper unawares and went in.     They doubled their lead five minutes into the second half when Muduhwa directed the ball into his own net under pressure to clear his lines having failed to properly communicate with his goalkeeper.