FARAI Jere’s trial commenced yesterday at the Harare Magistrates’ Court with the businessman insisting he did everything above board in the case he is accused of swindling the Zimbabwe Electricity Transmission and Distribution Company (ZETDC) of US$3 million.      Jere, who is also CAPS United president and Zifa board member, is jointly charged with his company Helcraw Electrical as well as ZETDC employees Leonard Chisina and Freeman Chikonzo in the smart meters deal and are being represented by lawyer Lewis Uriri.      The State witness Raphael Katsande told the court yesterday that the allegations arose after two years when he received a report from the Zesa Holdings executive chairperson Sydney Gata that there was something amiss around the deal.      Katsande said he invoked a clause in the contract for Helcraw to address the shortcomings and the matter was made criminal because of some “misrepresentations”.      Allegations are that Jere misrepresented to ZETDC that Secure Meters Pvt Ltd had a manufacturing plant for smart meters and had a head end system in the United Kingdom yet there was none.       Claims are that on November 24, 2018, three engineers Mapipi, Tshuma and Chisina all from ZETDC and Chikonzo travelled with Jere to the UK to carry out a factory acceptance test (FAT).       It is alleged that while in the UK, Jere took the engineers to a warehouse with smart meters and not a factory.       Reports are that Chisina and Chikonzo signed the false FAT report while Mapipi and Tshuma expressed reservations as no test had been done.       Claims are that upon return to the country, Mapipi and Tshuma were removed from the project by Chisina.      Reports are that Jere then made a shipment of 1151 smart meters which were delivered to ZETDC and they paid $US3 566 878.02.      In their defence, the three argued that a proper FAT was conducted and the meters supplied are still working.      They also argued that the supplied meters are currently working properly and that if there were defects, they could have cancelled the agreement.      “No complaints were raised upon delivery and within the defects notification period. The goods provided have performed well and continue to perform well and constitute value for money.      “That they all, or one or more of them, deny that they misrepresented that that they had done a complete FAT. They all and each contend that a complete FAT was undertaken.      “That they caused any prejudice whatsoever, whether as alleged or at all, to the good administration of ZETDC’s administration and procurement process. That they caused any financial prejudice whatsoever, whether as alleged or at all, to ZETDC,” they argued.      It is also Jere and his company’s argument that the contract was won on merit.      “It is reiterated that the contract was awarded on the basis of the adjudication process central to which were the samples provided.      “It is this contingent upon which payment was dependent.      “The complainant retained the right to refuse delivery of goods that did not match the sample subject to any agreed alterations,” the trio argued.       The matter continues today.