THE Covid-19 pandemic has inspired lawyer-cum-sculptor David Ngwerume to create some unique pieces which have gone viral on social media, raising awareness on the virus.      Ngwerume told the Daily News on Sunday at his gallery in Greendale in the capital last week that he is fighting against misinformation around the lethal virus which has been rampant on social media.       “There are a lot of conspiracy theories surrounding Covid-19 and vaccination. It is my duty as an artist to encourage society to take the jab through art.       “I am glad the message has reached the intended people,” the 40-year-old sculptor said.      Ngwerume’s artefacts come at a time when the government has begun a vaccination campaign against the virus, which has seen over 200 000 Zimbabweans receive their jabs.      Zimbabwe aims to vaccinate at least 10 million people to achieve herd immunity. However, some sections of society have been hesitant to take the vaccine due to the unfounded theories.      “The way the Covid-19-inspired pieces trended on social media have put the country on the global map,” he said.      So far, Ngwerume has worked on five Covid-19-inspired pieces that include “The New Normal” and “Arms”.       “The New Normal” is a piece showing a woman in her face mask and encourages people to wear theirs.     However, it is the “Arms” that broke the Internet as the piece depicts a woman getting her Covid-19 jab.        “The piece has gained value on the market of late due to the interest it generated on the Internet,” Ngwerume said.      Ngwerume, who created the Scales of Justice sculptures erected at the High Courts in Harare and Bulawayo, is now putting final touches to a piece titled “Mask Up”.      The piece depicts the late music icon Michael Jackson wearing a face mask and gloves.      The music  legend  popularised wearing a face mask and gloves in the 90s well before the Covid-19 epidemic.     “It is now impossible for me to be silent; I shall express what cannot be said in words through stone as the going seems uncertain. I believe God sent Michael Jackson to show the world the signs,” Ngwerume said.      He believes the late King of Pop knew it way back that there would be a time when wearing gloves and masks will be the norm.      “Remember, he was a global music icon and he used to travel a lot and he would greet VIPs with hands in gloves while putting on his face mask. Those were the signs,” Ngwerume said.      The sculptor, who has exhibited his work in the Netherlands, the United States, Germany, United Kingdom and Japan, says it is the responsibility of artists to inform and enlighten society through art.      “The duty of any artist is to send light into the darkness of mankind’s hearts, there is no truer truth,” he said.