TWO Zimbabwean films — Scars  and  Isolation — are among 23 from 11 African countries that have been selected for the inaugural edition of the Piton International Film Festival (PIFF) – Africa 2021 which will run virtually next month from the 13th to the 23rd.     Scars,written by John Mabuyane and directed by Bulawayo-based Percy Soko, won the outstanding Roil Bulawayo Arts Awards 2020 short film gong.      It is about the education of the girl-child, women empowerment and domestic violence.     Isolation, on the other hand was directed by someone who was only identified as Tamika.     PIFF- Africa 2021 is a 12-month initiative that seeks to promote filmmakers based on the continent through education, collaboration and celebration, instead of competition.     National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (Nacz) arts manager for Midlands Province Farai Kupfavira, who is the programme coordinator, said they received many applications from all over Africa.     “At the close of submissions on the 17th of April, we had received 23 films from 11 African countries which include South Africa, Morocco, Uganda, Cameroon and two films from Zimbabwe were submitted,” Kupfavira said.     She added that the submitted films cover a variety of issues topical to Africa.      “The issues tackled in the films are wide and they include gender-based violence and sexuality which are prevalent in many countries, even outside the African continent,” she said.     PIFF founder and president Ed “Umoja” Herman is equally ecstatic about the quality of the entries to the festival.     “From music videos to full feature projects, PIFF-Africa is happy with the level of work that has come to us and we will use our global platform to assist the filmmakers in get their brands to more locations,” he said.     According to Umoja, PIFF will showcase the films during the festival and work with the filmmakers to monetise their content.     “Because we are based on the collaborative spirit, we will be working with filmmakers who are interested in monetising their work after the festival.      “Thanks to all the filmmakers who have submitted to PIFF-Africa 2021. We look forward to building a long working relationship with you,” Umoja said.     Several Zimbabwean artists have used the annual PIFF to premiere their productions.      During the 2020 edition, which was hosted virtually due to the travel restrictions imposed by countries due to Covid-19, the late Thola “Osman” Banda premiered his short film Disturbed while visual artist Keith Zenda had a page created on the main festival website showcasing his work.     In November last year, PIFF, in partnership with Nacz, held an international online poetry jam in November where over 15 participants from Nigeria, Kenya, Botswana, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe showcased their talent.     A collective anthology of poets who participated is currently under production and is expected to be published shortly.