EDITOR — The Zimbabwe Constitution guarantees the right to healthcare, but thousands of pregnant women are going through “hell” each time they visit our public health institutions.      This is particularly so in Chitungwiza and Epworth.     Women in agonising labour pain are being turned away from these health centres, either because they refuse to pay a bribe or because they don’t know anyone personally who works there.     Recently, my helper shared with me that he feared, like many other Zimbabweans, that he could lose both his wife and his unborn baby in our failing health institutions.     The doctors and midwives at these facilities are now openly requesting bribes; they often ask the question, “what did you bring us?”.      This, of course, is a subtle bribe request. Soon after paying you will be immediately attended to, with no receipt issued.     Scores of pregnant women are being turned away from these health facilities, while some endure long queues, with no Covid protocol observed.      A lot of these women are unemployed, as are their husbands too.      Most people cannot afford private hospitals. If the government continues to turn a blind eye and a deaf ear to this crisis, it will simply be reversing the gains it had made in reducing the country’s mortality rate.     As Zimbabwe’s once enviable healthcare sector collapses under the weight of corruption, dilapidated infrastructure, lack of drugs and disgruntled staff, pregnant women are the hardest hit.      They are being forced to pay bribes to get any service.      Reports of babies born in queues outside maternity hospitals and clinics abound.     Government needs to act and arrest the situation urgently, before we incur more casualties.      Allegations also abound of corrupt staff at these health institutions that give priority to clients who pay in US dollars.     We call upon law enforcement agents to investigate and bring the culprits to book. This callous behaviour is destroying the nation.     The violation of patient rights is prevalent and any further government inaction endangers the lives of thousands of Zimbabweans.      Lives have been lost at these institutions, especially of babies, before or during labour owing to delayed or non-attendance by disinterested healthcare workers.     This has led many pregnant women to resort to home deliveries.      This inevitably increases the mortality risk for both mother and child.     Government should relook and prioritise maternal health issues.      A majority of the deaths could be prevented if women receive the requisite care throughout their pregnancies and during labour.     My message to healthcare workers; please go back to the spirit of Ubuntu/Unhu and save lives. — Chiwoneso Mpofu     lMpofu is the vice president of Patriotic Zimbabweans Political Party and an experienced nurse. She can be contacted on chiwo.mpofu@gmail.com