THE government is set to pay $1, 5 billion owed to cotton farmers by the Cotton Company of Zimbabwe (Cottco) from last year’s deliveries before the commencement of this year’s marketing season next month.     Appearing before the parliamentary portfolio committee on Lands, Agriculture, Fisheries, Water, and Rural Resettlement chaired by Gokwe Nembudziya legislator Justice Mayor Wadyajena, the ministry’s permanent secretary John Bhasera said Treasury and the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ) were currently seized with the matter.     “As I speak the ministry of Finance and the RBZ are working on the issue of payment of cotton farmers. Once the modalities have been finished, we will pay the farmers by mid-May before the next cotton marketing season begins.     “Cottco is the one that owes farmers because it has challenges financially so as the government we have decided to chip in to help our farmers,” Bhasera said.     This comes as Cottco has been under fire from farmers amid complaints that the money they were owed had since lost value and will deprive them of a meaningful benefit from their harvest.     During the committee hearing, Cottco managing director Pious Manamike, said that the company was in dire financial straits and had operational challenges, hence the payment delays.      “At this stage we have not made payments amounting to $1, 5 billion to farmers for the crop delivered last year. We still have hurdles to be cleared in terms of operationalisation and raising of the funds.     “However, for this year’s crop the producer price has been pegged at US$0,35c a kilogramme and we are working with CABS and CBZ banks to obtain funds so that we are able to pay farmers on delivery.     “This year’s cotton produce, 98 percent of it was produced through the Presidential Input Scheme, while two percent was contributed through free farming,” Manamike said.     The Cottco boss told the committee that the scheme had benefited over 300 000 farmers this year, with over 380 000 tonnes expected, 85 percent of which will be exported.     The government has since promulgated Statutory Instrument 96 of 2021, making cotton a controlled crop to curb side marketing and ensure the entire crop produced under the Presidential Input Contract Farming Scheme is sold to Cottco.