INFORMATION Communication Technology (ICT) minister Jenfan Muswere has said community information centres are key in creating opportunities and home-grown solutions for people in agriculture, mining, health and commerce.     Muswere said this yesterday during the launch of Containerised Village Information Technology Centre (CVIC) in Nyachuru, Mashonaland Central Province, as part of Postal and Telecommunications Regulatory Authority of Zimbabwe’s (Potraz) efforts of living no one behind in broadband connectivity.     He said life in the new reality under the Covid-19 pandemic is underpinned by broadband connectivity hence the need to ensure every community, regardless of its setting, is connected with broadband.     A number of schools in the province also received computers under the government’s E-learning programme.     “I, therefore, would like to reiterate our ministry’s commitment to the continued rollout of programmes aimed at ensuring that the rural areas are kept abreast of technological development, especially now when we all need to be kept informed of the different aspects of the Covid-19 pandemic … Do not vandalise the equipment or allow it to be vandalised. Guard your CVIC jealously as it is your gateway to community development and personal advancement.     “As government, we will continue to provide an enabling environment for the growth of the telecommunications sector. Access to ICTs and effective participation in the digital economy remains critical in improving the quality of life for all the people of Zimbabwe. It is, therefore, our wish as the government that all citizens of Zimbabwe have access to broadband connectivity, including those in rural and low-income communities,” Muswere said.     He said although Covid-19-related conditions have been slightly relaxed, the virus was still posing challenges and people continue to use homes as offices, while business meetings and social gatherings are being conducted virtually.     “This really is entrenching itself as the new reality, an environment where every aspect of life is now underpinned by broadband connectivity. It is, therefore, only fair that as a country we do not leave anyone behind when it comes to broadband connectivity, whether they are living in rural areas or in urban centres.     “It is for this reason that our ministry is in full support of the drive by Potraz to bridge the digital divide through the different programmes the regulator is undertaking to ensure that those in remote rural areas of our country also have access to ICTs, just as their urban compatriots. Community information centres, and indeed, CVIC, are an integral part of that drive as they enable local communities to have access to ICT services at affordable rates,” he said.     Muswere further urged the Nyachuru community and surrounding areas to make full use of the facilities to uplift their lives.     Potraz director-general Gift Machengete, on the other hand, underlined the effects Covid-19 had brought to all facets of life and how ICTs had become critical to the pandemic’s national response.     “Due to Covid-19, pupils and students failed to attend school, large companies and small enterprises failed to operate, people failed to seek medical attention at clinics and hospitals … farmers failed to attend to their crops, people failed to attend church and other social gatherings such as weddings and funerals.     “However, people were quick to realise that all this could be done virtually through ICTs. In the midst of the pandemic, ICTs provided platforms for e-learning, e-health, e-agriculture, e-commerce and virtual meetings where physical interaction was replaced by virtual interaction. ICTs provided live-streaming of church services, weddings and funerals,” Machengete said.     “We can, therefore, conclude that ICTs have been a critical pillar to the national response to the pandemic. This is because ICTs provided business-critical connectivity, facilitated work-from-home arrangements and kept individuals and societies connected. ICTs also kept people informed on Covid-19 through bulk messages and social media. Citizens could reach out to authorities concerning suspected Covid-19 infections via hotlines, all of which was made possible through ICTs.”