A FRESH Covid-19 storm could be brewing in the country, after St David’s Bonda High School in Mutare reported that 120 girls had tested positive for the virus.     The jarring infections at the school are believed to represent the highest number of recorded positive cases at a single learning institution in the country to date.     It also comes after hundreds of other learners at Sacred Heart secondary and primary schools in Umzingwane District, Matabeleland South, were also hit by the lethal respiratory disease last week.     The national chief Covid-19 co-ordinator in President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s office, Agnes Mahomva, confirmed the St David’s Bonda infections to the Daily News yesterday — adding that the Health ministry had moved swiftly to manage the situation there.     “We can confirm the reports and the cases are being managed. The ministry of Health is on the ground and they are abiding by standards set by the minister on handling the cases,” she said.     Mahomva also said Health minister Constantino Chiwenga had devised a plan to deal with Covid-19 cases in schools. These included the testing of all pupils and staff to identify cases and to limit spreads.     “The infected are being treated and isolated. Contact tracing is being done with the contacts being quarantined and closely monitored,” Chiwenga himself said during a media briefing at the weekend.     “Vaccination of at risk populations surrounding the schools is on-going. Health education and engagement of surrounding communities is also on-going.     “Training of ministry of Education staff on how to prevent and manage outbreaks in learning institutions is also on-going. The distribution of sanitisers and face masks is also being done in the affected communities.     “The ministry of Health would like to reassure the public and parents of the infected and affected learners that these outbreaks are under control and that measures have been put in place to curb further spread of the disease,” Chiwenga said further.     As at the weekend, Zimbabwe had recorded a total of 37 699 confirmed Covid-19 cases, including 35 005 recoveries and 1 552 deaths since the outbreak of the disease.     At the same time, more than 276 000 citizens have been vaccinated against the disease under the on-going national inoculation programme that is targeting 60 percent of the population to achieve herd immunity.