FORMER Mutare City Council chamber secretary Cephas Vuta has taken Home Affairs minister Kazembe Kazembe and Attorney General Prince Machaya to the High Court demanding US$220 000 in damages, claiming he was unlawfully arrested last year.     Vuta was nabbed in June 2020 after he allegedly stole money he had been allocated to attend a meeting in Masvingo, which was later postponed.     “On 14 June 2020 at about 1018 hours, the plaintiff (Vuta) was arrested by Sergeant Phiri, Constable Trust Zamba and Constable Kabanda, all members of the Zimbabwe Republic Police stationed at Mutare Central Police Station.     “The allegations were to the effect that plaintiff had stolen or converted about $12 400 which he had been paid for a meeting of chamber secretaries which was scheduled for Masvingo on a date in February 2020, which meeting was postponed due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, with indications that it would be convened soon,” read the court papers.     Vuta is arguing that the actions of the police officers were illegal as he had not been made aware that he had been placed under arrest, but rather he had voluntarily followed the police officers to the station where he was then detained.     “The arrest was unlawful in that he was not at any material time upon arrest or thereafter, upon being detained in police cells, officially informed that he was under arrest. He had accompanied the above-named police officers to Mutare Central Police Station driving his own personal vehicle on the invitation of the arresting details to continue a discussion of the matter at the station.”     He is further arguing that the allegations against him were malicious and had not been backed up by any evidence.     “There was no reasonable suspicion that he had committed the offence as the allegations were baseless, malicious and motivated by bad faith.      “There was then an employer-employee relationship from which the plaintiff was on his way out in terms of a mutual termination of employment agreement.     “No reasonable police officer acting in good faith and who would have properly applied his mind to the matter would have arrested the plaintiff,” the court papers further read.     Vuta is demanding that Kazembe pay him US$220 000 in damages or the equivalent in RTGS as the police officers were working under the scope of his employment when the arrest took place.     “Wherefore plaintiff prays for judgement against the 1st defendant in the following terms; payment of the sum of US$100 000 for unlawful arrest and detention, payment of US$50 000 for contumelia, payment of US$50 000 for punitive damages and payment of US$20 000 for damages in emotional distress and discomfort.”