OVER 11 000 people from Mt Darwin and Matobo will benefit from a US$1 million Japanese government investment towards food security and community building.     This comes as over 5,5 million rural people have been projected to be food insecure at the peak of the hunger season following surveys by the Zimbabwe Vulnerability Assessment Committee 2020 Rural Livelihoods Assessment.     Japan has contributed US$1,25 million through the World Food Programme (WFP) to support vulnerable, food insecure communities in Zimbabwe that have been severely impacted by climate shocks and Covid-19.     “In collaboration with WFP, the government of Japan continues to deliver support from the people of Japan to the most vulnerable communities in Zimbabwe, focusing on improving their nutrition and building their resilience. We hope that this assistance will help to alleviate their hardship during the current humanitarian crisis, and make them more resilient to climate shocks in the future,” Japan’s ambassador to Zimbabwe Satoshi Tanaka said.     “The support from Japan will assist 11 080 people in building community and household assets in the districts of Mount Darwin and Matobo.      “As well as small dams, fish ponds, dip tanks, and irrigated vegetable gardens and orchards, assets include improved fields through water conservation activities, such as filling gullies, making terraces or soil bunds, and planting trees.”     The WFP has partnered with various governments to garner support to alleviate hunger and build communities during the Covid-19 era.     Japan has contributed to food assistance and community resilience-building activities for vulnerable communities in Zimbabwe through WFP, with over US$23 million provided in funding since 2019.     WFP country director and representative Francesca Erdelmann said the funding would enable Zimbabwean communities to move out of food insecurity towards sustainable livelihoods.     “It will not only provide immediate access to food support for the most vulnerable, but will also sustainably address the long-term food security of rural communities by rehabilitating and building productive community assets such as small weir dams, nutrition gardens, cattle dip tanks and fish ponds. It will also go towards training the assisted communities in the management of these assets and in skills such as financial literacy, among others,” she added.     “It will help to advance WFP’s shared efforts to protect and improve the food security of the women, girls, boys and men in Zimbabwe.”