THE government has allowed schools to partner private companies in commercial enterprise through public private partnerships to ensure self-sustainability by the learning institutions.     Primary and Secondary Education minister Cain Mathema recently told the National Assembly that he was already in the process of facilitating the acquisition of farms by some schools that intend to venture into dairy farming.     “We have schools like Chipindura in Bindura that are into dairy production.       “Every day they produce milk which they sell and they have used the money to build classroom blocks and the administration block.       “Every school, in addition to the assistance each school gets from the ministry of Finance, every school is now allowed to engage with the private sector so that they have their own projects.      “We have, for instance, Fatima School in Lupane which has over 400ha of land, but that piece of land is not being used commercially.      “Even this august House, the building itself is a farm to me. You can imagine how much money you can make out of mushrooms that would be grown in this room — we will have many trays of mushroom.      “So each school has been allowed to start engaging the private sector, even to the extent of allowing a company to engage in commercial activities with the school on a build, operate and transfer (BOT) basis so that after so many years the company leaves the school,” Mathema said.     He further said that a good example was that of Mpopoma High School, which he said has 2 500 learners, who still buy uniforms from other manufacturers, yet the institution teaches fashion and fabrics.     “I am in the middle of assisting that school to have a stand in Bulawayo opposite the teachers’ college near Mpilo, United College of Education so that they start their own factory for our learners to learn in the classroom and see what their school is doing in terms of producing school uniforms,” he said.     Mathema was responding to MDC Njube-Lobengula MP Gift Banda who wanted to know what the government was doing regarding the supply of running water in all government schools in both urban and rural areas.     Mathema said his ministry was working with the Lands ministry to drill boreholes at all schools that have no water countrywide.     “Instructions have been given that every school head makes it a point to their respective provincial education director to indicate whether their schools have water at all.       “Many times, it depends on the availability of funds but what the government has also done is that every school is now empowered or is allowed to engage in business.      “As I am speaking, the minister of Agriculture is in the process, we gave him a list of schools that have no boreholes and Zimbabwe National Water Authority is already doing that job.  It is already a job in progress,” the minister said.