LOCAL women have come together with initiatives aimed at empowering other women through arts and cultural activities.      Under the banner of Zheera Trust, several other initiatives have been lined up for the benefit and empowerment of women.      Founder and chairperson of the trust, Alice Tagwira said their aim is to share the success stories of women and move away from the mourning and sad stories.      “Our main objective is advocacy for Women’s rights. We are committed to correcting and creating awareness and action against all injustices and inequalities related to women such as violation of women’s rights, child marriages and stigma against single mothers and other marginalised women.      “We also aim to provide women with access to platforms and opportunities in arts and cultural activities. Our women should be self-confident and we encourage critical thinking, independence and effective communication. We also promote job creation and entrepreneurship,” she said.      The trust will be formally launched on May 22 and will coincide with the launch of their magazine She Glows Africa Magazine.      “The magazine covers stories about women across Africa. The goal is to encourage, give hope and to empower women with information as we strive for a new Africa of empowered women. We feature and celebrate female movers and shakers and most importantly we feature real life success stories and testimonies of ordinary women,” she said.      Tagwira is also behind the single mothers’ picnics known as healing classes for emotionally distressed women.      So far, they have done a picnic which saw several women converging and sharing experiences to help themselves in moving on by having fun and also have emotional healing classes for those struggling to comprehend what they are going through and help each other with income generating projects.      “We envision a society made up of empowered women who have sustainable livelihoods; women who can mentor each other. We are striving to create a future where women are key drivers in facilitating life-changing development initiatives within their communities,” she said.