TEACHERS’ unions have criticised the government for failing to put in place mechanisms to ensure school children are protected from Covid-19, amid rising cases of the virus in learning institutions.     Schools have become new hotspots for the disease, with St David’s Bonda High School in Mutasa being the latest victim after 120 girls tested positive.     The latest figures come in the wake of reports of two institutions in Matabeleland South which recorded 106 cases in one day, while seven pupils at Prince Edward High School in Harare also tested positive late last month.     Speaking to the Daily News yesterday, Progressive Teachers Union of Zimbabwe (PTUZ) secretary general, Josiphat Gwezhira said, the government  had failed to handle the pandemic in schools, which had contributed to the rising cases.     “Our position on the issue of those learners who tested positive is that we are not going to talk about them in isolation, we are going to talk about them in the context of other outbreaks that have happened at other schools.     “To us this is exhibit number one where we accuse the government of being reckless. We have said before that there is a need to decongest classes and boarding schools at large.     “Now we have a school where 120 learners out of approximately 900 have tested positive. That is on the face of it, a very big proportion of the learners and there is potential for more infections within the student body and also the community who represent the school committee,” Gwezhira said.     He said the government should decongest classes, adding that most schools have not been following the stipulated Covid-19 protocols.     “Intentions of the ministry of Health to do Covid-19 tests are only a small part of the solution because they are testing for infections where the disease has already shown its ugly head. They should test in all schools to counter infections,” he said.     Zimbabwe Teachers Association (Zimta) secretary general Goodwill Taderera, on the other hand, said that the government should do more to curb the spread of the virus, including engaging unions.     He said the recent figures from St David’s Bonda High School were a cause for concern.     “Who knows what is in other schools? As we speak, not many teachers and learners have been vaccinated, which can make the virus spread at a fast rate in schools. The spread of this virus must be arrested and controlled as a matter of urgency,” he said.     Amalgamated Rural Teachers Union of Zimbabwe president Obert Masaraure said schools could be forced to close as the situation was getting out of hand.     “The way out of the Covid-19 crisis is regular testing coupled with strict adherence to standard operating procedures. Vaccination for our adult population should also be escalated. The government should fund safety in schools,” Masaraure said.