PARLIAMENT says the country’s education standards could plummet if the government does not urgently act to improve lecturers’ conditions of service and infrastructural development to curb brain drain.     This was said by the parliamentary portfolio committee on Higher Education in a report on quality assurance in the higher and tertiary institutions in Zimbabwe tabled in the National Assembly last week.     “The institutions failed to pay external examiners due to foreign currency shortage. Expatriates who were engaged to teach on new programmes had challenges as they could no longer remit funds to their families.     “They were demoralised and threatened not to renew their contracts. Further, due to foreign currency shortages, purchase of teaching and learning equipment and vehicles remained a challenge,” the committee said after visiting tertiary institutions around the country.     According to the committee, the institutions also lacked space for proper laboratories.     “Harare Institute of Technology (HIT) had to improvise by converting classrooms into laboratories which in turn created lecture space challenges.  Bindura University’s main campus was inherited and the campus falls short by far to match the student population.     “There was an acute shortage of student accommodation in almost all State institutions. HIT could only accommodate two percent of its students on campus while National University of Science and Technology could accommodate less than one percent.      “Bindura University could only accommodate 398 students out of around 6 000 students which translate to seven percent,” the Committee noted.     The committee, chaired by MDC MP for Hwange Daniel Molokele also said the recruitment freeze in State institutions created a huge deficit on the availability of skilled personnel in various sections.     The ICT department at Bindura University, the committee found, was functioning with only 50 percent of its ideal manpower while at Gweru Polytechnic, only one full time member who also doubled as a lecturer manned the department.     “The institutions faced financial constraints to refurbish their infrastructure. Some of the buildings were old and obsolete and hence in need of sprucing up.     “HIT had requested $1, 5 million in May 2019 for maintenance but had not received the funds at the time of visit. The institutions bemoaned the huge salary gap between Zimbabwean institutions and other institutions in the Sadc region.     “This resulted in highly skilled lecturers leaving, thereby denting the institutions’ efforts at staff development. The institutions implored the government to avail non-monetary incentives to retain staff. HIT informed the committee that from January to October 2019, the institution had lost 24 high-end technical staff.     “Another worrying trend was that lecturers were leaving teachers’ colleges and polytechnics for universities since there was a huge discrepancy between the salary levels of lecturers in universities and those in teachers’ colleges and polytechnics,” the committee said.     Other challenges the institutions faced according to the report include power outages which resulted in the institutions forking out prodigious amounts of money to buy fuel for backup generators.     “HIT was running a 250KVA generator for four hours a day.      “The generator consumed an average of 50 litres per hour which translates to 400 litres of diesel per day.     “Institutions continue to be constrained in achieving its mandate of incubating and commercialising technology due to archaic equipment in some of their workshops and laboratories.     “More importantly, some of the equipment needed to be sourced from outside the country using foreign currency. Severely hit by this problem were polytechnics.     “At Bulawayo Polytechnic, the lecturers bemoaned the lack of modern…      “The workshops continued to operate with manual machinery. The problem was further exacerbated and compounded by failure to recruit workshop technicians to service the old equipment.     “There was an acute shortage of transport to ferry students to campuses. The situation was worse at Bindura University where there were numerous campuses and a student would be attending lectures at more than one campus,” the report reads further.     Parliament recommended that the government should expedite the process of amending the Manpower Planning and Development Act to address and improve the conditions of service of lecturers in teacher-training and polytechnic colleges.     It further asked for their removal from the Public Service Commission and place them under a different commission to determine their conditions of service autonomously, as well as allow higher and tertiary education institutions to register own companies.