THE Zimbabwe Prisons and Correctional Services (ZPCS) deputy commissioner-general Granisia Musango says the organisation is empowering inmates through rehabilitation programmes such as agriculture.     Speaking during a recent media tour of Hurungwe Prison Farm in Mashonaland West Province where she was the guest of honour, Musango, said it was their duty to reform prisoners.      “In this regard, rehabilitation serves as a vehicle for correcting, reforming and empowering offenders with the requisite knowledge and skills which are key for their socio-economic well-being.      “Ideally when persons complete their sentences people expect such persons to reintegrate back into the society having been transformed. Therefore a prison system that returns such offenders in a worse off position than they were before imprisonment is dangerous to the society.     “I am pleased to bring to your attention that the aim of the ZPCS’ rehabilitation programmes such as the agricultural activities is to promote behavioural reform and empowering inmates with useful and productive work ethics and attitudes good for their psychological support as well as good farming practices,” Musango said.      The Hurungwe Prison Farm is located in the ecological Region 2B and sits on both heavy clay and loamy soils making it ideal to farm all year round. It is an amalgamation of three farms measuring 1 729 hectares, 1 000 of which is potential arable land.     “It is also pleasing to note that the station is producing enough to meet its food requirements as well as feeding other prison stations and selling surplus for income generation. The funds being realised are being ploughed back into production cycle,” she said.     “The optimum utilisation of the drip irrigation and centre pivot facilities are courtesy of the available four water bodies at the station. During this winter crop season plans are underway to put 80 hectares under wheat production and to embark on fish farming.     “The impartation of agricultural production skills resonates well with our economy which is agro-based hence most of our rehabilitation activities have a bias towards farming given that farming is core in our lives.”