PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa yesterday challenged the sports sector to adopt a more robust commercial approach if the industry is to get any better.     This comes as the sector has been hit hard by the recent ban on sporting activities in the country ordered by the government as part of measures to contain the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.     The ban worsened the already precarious financial position of most institutions in the country across all disciplines like football, athletics, rugby and netball.     And in his keynote speech to mark the country’s 41st Independence Day celebrations, Mnangagwa stressed the need for a financially stable sporting industry as it contributes to people’s livelihoods.     “Stakeholders  in  the  sporting sector  are  challenged  to  pursue  innovative  and  robust methods  of  financing  and  development  of  the  various sporting disciplines,” Mnangagwa said.     “Sports,   arts,   culture   and   other   recreational   activities contribute towards improved   livelihoods, well-being, health, education, inclusion, peace and national cohesion.”     For instance, most local football clubs in the country have no solid blueprint as they largely depend on gate takings for survival — a flawed strategy which can hardly sustain teams especially in an economy like Zimbabwe’s.     Things got to alarming levels recently when two of the country’s giants, CAPS United and Highlanders, at some point received some “meagre donations” meant to mitigate effects of the Covid-19.     It’s a complete opposite especially in developed leagues, where clubs like Chelsea, Manchester United, Tottenham Hotspurs, Bayern Munich, Real Madrid and Inter Milan were at the forefront of helping their communities cope with the novel virus.     These top clubs were providing food and other basic necessities to the public within their vicinities.     Some even availed their stadia to health authorities who converted them into temporary quarantine and triage areas since health facilities were overwhelmed by the high number of patients.     However, in Zimbabwe it is the clubs that are on the receiving end and they are now on the brink of collapsing due to the coronavirus lockdown.      The government allowed the resumption of all sporting activities and most sporting disciplines are beginning to resume activities albeit gradually following the World Health Organisation (WHO) Covid-19 protocol including regular Covid-19 testing of all players and staff members.     The Premier Soccer League recently announced that football will return in a different format that will see the league’s 18 teams placed in four groups that will be hosted by four cities — Harare, Bulawayo, Mutare and Zvishavane.     Group One will consist clubs from Harare — CAPS United, Dynamos, Harare City, Herentals, Yadah and ZPC Kariba while Group Two is made up of four Bulawayo teams ―Bulawayo Chiefs, Bulawayo City, Chicken Inn and Highlanders.     Mutare will host Group three which consist Black Rhinos, Craneborne Bullets, Manica Diamonds and Tenax with Group Four made up of FC Platinum, Ngezi Platinum Stars, Triangle United and Whawha in Zvishavane.     Mnangagwa also noted some significant achievements in sports recently.     “The country celebrates the notable milestones registered in the  sporting  fraternity,  including repairs  to  the  National Sports Stadium, Barbourfields and Sakubva Stadium; qualification by the national soccer team the Warriors to the 2022 African Cup  of  Nations,  and  winning  the  African  Boxing Union  title, among  others,” he said.