PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa yesterday commissioned Lafarge Cement Zimbabwe’s US$2,8 million dry mortar plant – the largest in southern Africa — which he said will reduce construction costs by 40 percent and is in line with the country’s economic blueprint, the National Development Strategy 1 (NDS1).       Commissioning the plant at the firm’s Mabvuku, Harare, premises, Mnangagwa said the new plant had the capacity to increase speed of construction by 70 percent, compared to the conventional method.     “Consequently, this will have a far reaching impact on the attainment of targets set out in the NDS1 … the construction of housing units, modernisation and upgrading of our ports of entry and other social service infrastructure will also be timely completed. The increased production of cement entails the smooth and timeous completion of various national projects such as the Emergency Road Rehabilitation Programme and dam construction projects among others,” the president said.     The investment, which is part of LafargeHolcim Group’s US$25 million recapitalisation plan for Zimbabwe that was announced two years ago, was sourced from Turkey and installed at a value of US$2,8 million.     Mnangagwa said his government remained open for business, adding that yesterday’s event was testimony of this mantra and the country’s readiness for dialogue.     “Our arms are outstretched to welcome investors from across the world. My government continues to implement a broad array of the ease and cost of doing business reforms and improving the overall investment climate. In addition, pertinent issues around economic competitiveness, cost drives in various value chains across all sectors of the economy are being interrogated and reviewed.     “These ongoing economic reforms have resulted in notable growth of the country’s manufacturing sector. This should continue to propel the industry to produce high quality products, goods and services benchmarked against global standards and best practices,” Mnangagwa said.     Also speaking at the event, Industry minister Sekai Nzenza said her ministry had enjoyed a robust strategic engagement with Lafarge that culminated in the facilitation of duty rebate on imported equipment through the National Project Status.     “It is in the spirit of a strategic approach to the cement manufacturing sector growth, promoting the local content strategy, that the ministry … promulgated Statutory Instrument 89 of 2021 on April 2, 2021. The Statutory Instrument removes cement from the open general market ensuring a protection mechanism for the cement manufacturing sector to then see companies reciprocating the government efforts through investments such as the one we are witnessing today is a validation of the government strategic interventions,” she said.     Lafarge Zimbabwe chief executive Precious Nyika on the other hand said the dry mortar plant was set to improve the capacity in the supply of products such as tile adhesives and agricultural lime.     “This automated dry mortar plant will go a long way in improving local supply of the range of products and will ultimately create more value for our customers through the introduction of new products.     “Furthermore, this capacity expansion translates to a guaranteed business growth opportunity for the partners in our value chain. Lafarge currently offers a range of dry mortar products which include the tile adhesive range known as supafix which has made significant inroads in the individual home builders segment,’’  Nyika said.