OUTGOING Miss Albinism Zimbabwe, Ayanda Sibanda says it has been a refreshing experience carrying the torch of the pageant during her two-year reign.      Sibanda says she is going to cherish every moment as she heads back to her Law studies at the University of Zimbabwe.       Our Senior Lifestyle Writer Vasco Chaya sat down with her last week and discussed an array of issues pertaining to her achievements and challenges she encountered since 2018 when she was crowned the queen at the second edition of the pageant meant to bring awareness to everything albinism. Below are the excerpts of the discussion.      Q: Tell us about yourself and life before modelling?      A: My name is Ayanda Candice Sibanda. I am a 20-year-old second year Law student, professional model, humanitarian activist and girl-child advocate. I was born and bred in the city of Kings ko Bulawayo and before venturing into modelling, I was an award-winning public speaker.      Q: What inspired you to participate in the Miss Albinism pageant?      A: The organisation’s vision and mission has inspired me. I wanted to enter a pageant system that will allow me to be a voice for the young women with albinism and be able to advocate for positive change and bring impact.      Q: What have you achieved during your term in office?      A: I had the opportunity to work with different charities, learn a lot about albinism, start my foundation called the Ayanda Candice Foundation, I had the opportunity to further my modelling career, win a modelling award and I was recently crowned Miss University of Zimbabwe.      Q: What challenges have you encountered and how have you overcome them?      A: I was crowned at a stage where I was young at heart and it was a struggle to transition to a mature ambassador that I was expected to be and what kept me going was a constant reminder of why I started the journey in the first place.      Q: Do you think you have succeeded to stand for people living with albinism during your term in office? Give reasons.      A: I have. I have broken boundaries in the modelling industry. When I started, I didn’t have so many people to look up to and today, I stand as a representation for other models with albinism and they can follow in my footsteps and do much greater things and achieve more.      Q: What still needs to be done by your successor?      A: I think she should be in a position to work on special causes close to her heart and most of all, she needs to have the needs of the people at heart so she can be able to serve them well.      Q: Who is your role model?      A: My role model is Pia Alonzo Wurtzbach. She is Miss Universe 2015. To me, Pia she stands as epitome of an ambitious, hardworking and resilient beauty queen. She competed several times in her national pageant to be able to represent her country at Miss Universe and even though the other two times she didn’t make it. She never gave up.      Q: What are you by profession outside modelling?      A: I am a Law student and an aspiring actress.      Q: What have you learnt during your term in office?      A: Sometimes you need to be willing to go an extra mile so that people can recognise your efforts and support your vision.      Q: Where do you see yourself in the next five years?      A: I subscribe to the teaching of Greg Anderson that you need to focus on the journey and not the end goal and although I have a dream to be Miss Universe and a practicing lawyer for now, I am looking forward to what the journey to those five years holds.      Q: What would you say to aspiring models?      A: Refuse to be defined by someone else’s belief of what’s possible