A PEOPLE’S Democratic Party (PDP) faction is seeking a rescission of a decision by the High Court to nullify the recall from Parliament of MDC Alliance vice president Tendai Biti and five other legislators.      The Lucia Matibenga-led faction approached the court challenging an order granted by High Court judge Justice Amy Tsanga that set aside the recalls.      Former PDP secretary-general Benjamin Rukanda caused the recall of MPs Biti, William Madzimure, Settlement Chikwinya, Kucaca Ivumile Phulu, Sichelesile Mahlangu, and Regai Tsunga last month after he wrote to Speaker of Parliament Jacob Mudenda stating that the legislators had ceased representing the party’s interests.      Rukanda had also written to Local Government minister July Moyo recalling former Harare mayor Jacob Mafume, Simon Chabuka and Arnold Batirai Dube as councillors.      In papers filed at the High Court, the Matibenga PDP faction together with Rukanda cited the recalled MPs as well as Mudenda, Moyo, the Parliament of Zimbabwe, the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission and the PDP faction led by Biti as the respondents.      Justice Tsanga ruled that the letter written to Mudenda was null and void as Rukanda had no authority to act as secretary-general of PDP.      Rukanda is now challenging the order insisting that Justice Tsanga’s claim was misinformed as he had been authorised to act in the capacity of secretary-general of PDP at a meeting held in September last year.      “On the 12th of September 2020, the first applicant (PDP) held a meeting in Gweru and passed a resolution mandating me as the secretary-general of the first applicant to litigate and/or defect the first applicant in issues relating to recalls of party members who had defected from Parliament or local authorities,” his affidavit reads.      He is also claiming that the order was unfair as he had not been given a chance to challenge the initial application because he did not receive the court papers filed by Phulu and the other MPs.      “I humbly submit that my default in entering appearances to defend the summons was neither wilful nor deliberate for the following reasons; I never received a copy of the summons that is alleged to have been served to me through affixing under a principal door at room 6, 2nd floor Nobert House,” Rukanda argued.      He also avers that the decision by Justice Tsanga to appoint Chikwinya as the new PDP secretary-general was illegal according to the party’s constitution.     “The second respondent (Chikwinya) has no locus standi to act, or represent the first applicant as the secretary-general as he defected to another party known as the MDC Alliance Party in breach of the provisions of the constitution of the first applicant,” Rukanda stated.