The government has admitted that the ongoing strike by teachers is crippling the education sector following a drastic decrease in the number of educators reporting for duty, while those coming to work are not teaching.     This comes as teachers and other civil servants two weeks ago declared that they could not attend to their duties owing to incapacitation as a result of the erosion of their salaries.     The development comes notwithstanding the fact that this month the government awarded restive civil servants a 25 percent salary increment with a pledge to further increase it by 75 percent in July.     Addressing a post-Cabinet media briefing in Harare yesterday, Information minister Monica Mutsvangwa, pictured, said the government was committed to continuous engagement with civil servants with a view to improving their conditions of service.     “Cabinet was informed that the number of teachers reporting for duty had decreased. It is further noted that some of those reporting for duty are not teaching.     “Cabinet wishes to reiterate that negotiations for improved conditions for civil servants remain open under the National Joint Negotiating Council and that the no work, no pay policy will be strictly enforced,” Mutsvangwa said.     She also said Defence minister Oppah Muchinguri-Kashiri, who is also the chairperson of the task force on the country’s response to the Covid-19 outbreak, had informed Cabinet that as at April 20, Zimbabwe’s cumulative cases stood at 37 875, with 35 058 recoveries and 1 554 deaths.     “The recovery rate stood at 93 percent with 35 810 cases being attributed to local transmission. Active cases were 1 275.     “Regarding public transport, the Cabinet noted with concern the increased flouting of Covid-19 prevention control measures in the public transport system.     “In this regard, the Cabinet agreed that law and order should increase surveillance on public transporters.     “Cabinet remains cognisant of the need to fully open all economic activities. However, in the face of the threat of a third wave, the Cabinet has deferred consideration of the opening of bars and nightclubs until further notice,” said Mutsvangwa.     The minister also reported that Vice President Constantino Chiwenga, who is also Health minister, had informed Cabinet that a total of 288 229 and 36 778 people had received their first and second doses of the Covid-19 vaccines respectively across the country.     The government is currently carrying out vaccination campaigns all over the country with the ministry of Health presently giving priority to residents of border towns.     “Cabinet was informed that on 16th April 2021 more outbreaks were reported at two boarding schools, namely; at St. Davids Bonda Girls School, in Manicaland and Embakwe High School in Plumtree.  145 and 91 learners tested positive, respectively.      “The government would like to reassure the nation that the situation is under control and all the cases are mild and asymptomatic.      “The ministry of Health is testing and vaccinating members in the adjoining communities where the schools are located.  All those found positive have been quarantined.      “The ministries of Primary and Secondary Education; and Health and Child Care have intensified enforcement of the Covid-19 standard operating procedures in all schools and those found violating Covid-19 preventive measures will be sanctioned,” she said further.     Mutsvangwa also said President Emmerson Mnangagwa would receive his second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at Kwekwe Hospital at a date to be announced.     She also said Cabinet had considered and approved the final ministerial action plan that is compliant with the National Development Strategy 1 which was presented by the minister of Foreign Affairs, Frederick Shava.     “The ministry’s mission is to promote the political and socio-economic interests, the image and influence of Zimbabwe in the international community.     “It also seeks to protect the interests and safety of the Zimbabwean diaspora. The deliverables of the plan include the following: appointment of eight honorary consuls during the five-year period; establishment of 25 new export markets and facilitating 100 trade investment missions; and improving international relations through such undertakings as signing of 150 cooperation agreements and 26 Bilateral Investment Promotion and Protection Agreements .     “The country’s image will be improved through the planned 650 public diplomacy and visibility initiatives both locally and internationally, including press releases, holding regular briefings with diplomats accredited to Zimbabwe, and delivering lectures at universities and other key national institutions.     “In line with the decentralisation and devolution thrust, the ministry is in the process of establishing two provincial offices in Bulawayo and Victoria Falls,” Mutsvangwa said.     On the other hand, Finance minister Mthuli Ncube also presented the monitoring and evaluation framework for the NDS1, which Cabinet approved.     At its launch last year, Mnangagwa pledged that the attendant monitoring and evaluation framework would be published to ensure that set targets are met.     “Accordingly, the Cabinet was advised that NDS 1 will be implemented and monitored using a thematic working group approach.     “All the identified benchmarks, targets, milestones and outcomes will therefore be the responsibility of the blueprint’s fourteen thematic working group chairpersons and their co-chairpersons, and based on 2020 as the baseline year.     “The framework outlines the annual targets for each national priority area; key result area; outcome; and key performance indicators,” she added.