NGEZI Platinum Stars coach Rodwell Dhlakama believes the club has put in a massive investment in securing players and will have no excuses when the 2021 season starts next month.     The Mhondoro-based side see themselves as one of the favourites to wrestle the title from FC Platinum after signing a host of talented players last year before the 2020 season was washed away by the Covid-19 pandemic.     The PSL is now preparing for football resumption next month albeit in a different format that will see the league’s 18 teams placed in four groups that will be hosted by four cities — Harare, Bulawayo, Mutare and Zvishavane.     And yesterday the club used their kit unveiling ceremony here to announce the arrival of former Dynamos and Black Rhinos midfielder Marvelous Mukumba while ex-Chicken Inn winger Valentine Kadonzvo is also tipped to join the platinum miners.     Mukumba joins a cast of stars who include former Dynamos pair of midfielders Devon Chafa and Denver Mukamba and Wellington Taderera, who joined from Black Rhinos after signing last year.     Former Triangle players Kudzai Chigwida, Marion Chang, Nyasha Chintuli and Anelka Chivandire are also in the ranks of Ngezi alongside Isa Ali, Junior Zindoga, Munashe Katondo and Tendai Matindife, much to the delight of Dhlakama.       “The team has invested so much that we can’t pay back by just coming here and pretend to be busy doing nothing. We need to work hard. We need to put a lot of effort so that we win something,” Dhlakama said.       “Talent alone is overrated; talent plus hard work will give us something. Our approach as Ngezi is to recruit the best. Ngezi is not a dumping ground for players who do not want to take the team forward.     “So we will make sure that whoever is going to represent us must value the importance of the jersey.      ‘‘As players and coaches we represent the flagship of NPS so we need to properly represent the team here and outside, we must be exemplary because we are the ambassadors of the team.     “It’s important for us to observe and respect the badge of the team and there is no compromise. Compromise means destruction and we don’t want that.”     According to the Premier Soccer League, Group One will consist clubs from Harare — CAPS United, Dynamos, Harare City, Herentals, Yadah and ZPC Kariba while Group Two is made up of four Bulawayo teams —  Bulawayo Chiefs, Bulawayo City, Chicken Inn and Highlanders.     Mutare will host Group Three which consist of Black Rhinos, Cranborne Bullets, Manica Diamonds and Tenax while Group Four comprising FC Platinum, Ngezi Platinum Stars, Triangle United and Whawha will battle it out in Zvishavane.     “Naturally, if you want to win a competition you need the best squad available and we have done that. We have very good experienced players but it’s also natural that even if you have been studying for years and you want to write exams you can still ask for more time to read,” Dhlakama added.       “You can never be satisfied and I’m still looking to add one or two more players.      “The good thing is that at Ngezi we don’t just sign players but we do a meticulous assessment if one would suit our philosophy.      “Even if we don’t get them I think I can still do with the ones I have.     “As a coach you always want to win. If they give you a mandate you want to surpass it because if you fail that means there is a problem somewhere.      “The good thing is that the board is supporting us in our endeavours and we also don’t want to leave any stone unturned to win.     “I also want to grow as a coach. I have won the championship before but I’m not satisfied because the more I accumulate those championships the more I will be judged.”     The club’s chief executive Nyasha Kadengu said the club expects nothing less than silverware this year.     “We invested heavily last year, we assembled a very strong team and we are expecting positive results this season,” she said.     “I think we deserve to win. We expect to be one of the top teams in the league. I believe the team has both young and experienced players who are ready to face any team in PSL, we will continue to fight until we get that silverware.”     The miners also took time yesterday to unveil their Umbro kit for both home and away strips as well as travelling gear and a training strip.