THE political silly season is upon us ahead of the 2023 harmonised elections. The country’s main political players, the ruling Zanu PF, the MDC and the MDC Alliance, have begun forays into the rural areas either to recruit new members, set up structures or canvass for votes ahead of the polls.     Zimbabwe has had a history of political violence ahead of general polls since Independence in 1980, especially in the rural areas where Zanu PF has political hegemony.       Rural areas have become synonymous with the ruling party that the opposition has found it extremely difficult to penetrate over the years.     The opposition believes that has been the situation because of the orgy of violence Zanu PF unleashes to tenaciously cling to power and the abuse of traditional leaders in whipping voters into line.     The opposition also accuses the Zanu PF government of vote buying using food meant for starving villagers. But since the new dispensation under President Emmerson Mnangagwa, in particular the countdown to the July 31, 2018 polls, little political violence has been witnessed in the rural areas.     Obviously, the post-election violence that resulted in soldiers gunning down civilians on August 1, 2018 blighted what had been clearly largely peaceful harmonised elections.     The appeal this time around is that the countdown to the 2023 polls must be violence-free.     Political parties, huge and minnows, must be allowed to freely and fairly carry out legitimate campaigns across the country to boost the quality of our elections. The quality and integrity of elections are judged based on events before, during and after the polls.     The country’s elections management body, the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission, must put in place measures that guarantee free and fair campaigning, and deal firmly with shenanigans by political gladiators bent on promoting anarchy.     Merchants of violence, regardless of their status in any political party, should not be allowed to reign supreme. Power contestation is a political phenomenon the world over, hence there is absolutely no need for contestants to engage in violence. Mudslinging is part of the political game, but violence is antithetical to democratic discourse.     Our appeal is that the police should stamp out violence. There is a need to round up any malcontents before the elections.     If perpetrators are allowed to do as they please, the country faces the danger of having a lawless society and plunging the nation into turmoil and further international isolation on allegations of human rights abuses. We should have zero tolerance to violence of any nature.