ZIMBABWE Anti-Corruption Commission (ZACC) chairperson Loice Matanda-Moyo has praised Transparency International Zimbabwe (TIZ) for launching two reports that focus on corruption and illicit financing in the country’s health sector.       The first report is titled ‘A report on corruption in the public health sector in Zimbabwe’ while the second one is named ‘Illicit financing in the public health sector.’     Speaking at the launch of the two reports on Tuesday, Matanda-Moyo TIZ’s research would assist her organisation in its implementation of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy.      “Such research will go a long way in ensuring that the relevant subcommittees are guided when enforcing transparency and accountability in the health sector,” said the ZACC chairperson in a speech delivered by ZACC deputy chairperson Kuziwa Murapa.     She added that ZACC had conducted compliance and systems spot checks at central hospitals, the National Blood Services and Natpharm to assess the procurement processes of Covid-19 drugs and equipment.     “These exercises have led to the arrest of senior government officials from the Ministry of Health and Natpharm. I can conclusively say that corruption has led to the failure of delivery of standard health care and as a result it has cost human lives,” said Matanda-Moyo.     At the same event, TIZ executive director Muchaneta Mundopa said corruption was adversely affecting health services delivery in the country.     “The quality of health care in Zimbabwe remains compromised due to many factors, corruption being one of them. Whilst corruption affects all sectors and has adverse effects on a country’s political, economic and social development, its impact on the health sector is dire and can lead to the difference between life and death,” said Mundopa.     She added that there was need for more action against corruption and illicit financing in Zimbabwe’s health sector.     “It is evident that the public health sector challenges we are facing as a country can, to a great extent, be attributed to resource leakages rather than the unavailability of resources.     “Therefore, the long term public health sector development framework should include efforts for curbing illicit financing and strengthening public finance management systems. TIZ believes that combating corruption is possible, and we seek to contribute towards effective anti-corruption strategies, informed by evidence, experience and context,” said Mundopa