AS THE Premier Soccer League (PSL) prepares for the resumption of football next month after over a year of inactivity owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, players have taken time to reflect on the period they say was “a wake-up call” in their careers.       Stung by meagre salaries at their respective clubs and the devastating effects of the Covid-19 the majority of players were forced to temporarily trade their boots for alternative sources of income to ensure they put food on the table.     Generally, when the season is on, players maximise their earnings through winning bonuses, travelling and camping allowances among others which was made impossible by inactivity.     But while for some, it was out of desperation to venture into small business initiatives like selling groceries, clothes, phones, bales and many more, for others it was a necessary development that came with some valuable lessons.     For talented Dynamos fullback Emmanuel Jalai, the episode was an eye-opener as it taught him some real life lessons which saw him teaming up with long-time friend and ex-Highlanders defender Collins Mujuru in launching a fashion label, Just Me.     “Yeah, honestly, I’m happy with the resumption of football. It really feels good. It’s been long without playing and us as footballers it was a bad phase to stay that long without doing what we love most,” Jalai revealed to the Daily News on Sunday.     “It was hard because we earn a living through playing football. So, inactivity affected us a lot especially financially. The pandemic really changed our way of living and it was hard for most footballers and other athletes as well.”      “The pandemic caught most of us by surprise. But it allowed some of us to reflect on the bigger picture. As a result I teamed up with my friend Collins and launched our clothing line Just Me.     “So, we sell T-shirts, tracksuits and hoodies and that’s how we are cushioning ourselves from the effects of Covid-19. I’m really grateful to all those who are supporting us. I realised the importance of venturing into business while also playing football.     “And the next step for me is to try and build my business at the same time developing my career. I’m even looking into the future after hanging my boots. It’s important to have these initiatives.”     And as he awaits the start of the season which has been tentatively set for next month, Jalai wants to work hard and cement his place in Tonderai Ndiraya’s squad and hopes the lethal virus will not cause further disruptions.     “I have to work hard. We have a relatively strong team and competition is very stiff this time around so for me to make the cut it requires a lot of hard work,” Jalai said.     “My hope is that things will stay as they are or even get better so that we can play football again. We are already one year behind so we need to catch up. It’s not going to be easy of course but I hope for the best always.     “I want to stay focussed and help my team win accolades. We are used to play before our fans but when football returns it will be much different as we will have to adjust to playing in empty stadiums. It was a bit strange when we played Highlanders in the Independence Cup but it is what it is.     “Again, we just hope this new situation will not further impact negatively on teams as most financially as they mostly rely on gate takings.     ‘‘ It’s a very difficult situation but we are hoping the transition will not be that hurtful to clubs and sport in general.”     Ngezi Platinum Stars midfielder, Devon Chafa, who tied the knot with his wife Caroline yesterday, also reflected on how the pandemic caught him unaware before he was forced to look for a side hustle and sustain his family.     “At first we thought it was just something that would not be here for long. But after some months of inactivity it became apparent that this thing was there to stay,” Chafa revealed.     “It became a boring situation just staying indoors with no movement or anything because of the lockdown measures. Preparing for your day was not even easy. We were used to being at the playing field, training or playing a game.     “The saddest part was the remuneration. As footballers we maximise on winning bonuses, travel, camping and appearance fees among others. So, since we were not playing it meant we did not get these benefits.     “It became a huge challenge and as a result I had to start a small business project just to generate extra cash although at Ngezi our salaries were still coming. I needed that extra cash for my family and I’m grateful to God for his grace.”     Chafa is happy to be doing what he knows best once again. However, for him, the pandemic allowed him to reflect on life outside football and make hay while the sun shines.       “Football has always been our livelihood, it is where our bread is buttered. So the return to action is something we have been waiting for. The happiness it brings is just inexplicable,” Chafa said.     “Every footballer is happy to be back at work. This is what we know best. But of course, while, playing football is what we know best I think it’s also important to secure life by venturing into business.     ‘‘I’m going to continue with my small business that I had started and see where it will take me. It’s good to invest wisely while I’m still playing.      The most important lesson I learnt from this is to prepare for life after football.”     Ahead of the 2021 season, Chafa hopes to help his new club win more titles. Chafa joined Ngezi Platinum at the beginning of last year but was forced to wait for his debut after the 2020 season was washed away by the Covid-19 pandemic.     “Individually, I would want to surpass the seven titles I have won,” he said.     “Collectively we have to make sure we do our best since we are chasing our first title as Ngezi Platinum Stars. I also wish and hope for an injury free season. It’s been a while and we are looking forward to the start of the matches.”     Ex-CAPS United utility player Hardlife Zvirekwi also took time to highlight the key lessons he drew from the Covid-19 pandemic.     Zvirekwi is currently unattached after he was released by CAPS at the end of the 2019 season alongside a host of other established players.     He is one of the footballers hardest hit by the pandemic as he had no source of income which saw him starting up a small business of supplying basic commodities.     “Covid-19 has affected our lives in a big way as footballers. Before it struck, I was on the verge of signing for a new team but it’s now history and I’m starting all over again. As footballers, we were stopped from doing what we know best,” he said.     “Covid-19 taught me some tough lessons and I had to adjust. I started a small business which I’m still managing even now. Again because of lockdown measures, it was never easy but I’m grateful because God is faithful. I’m supplying some basic commodities.     “I’m a family man and at the end of the day my family will be looking up to me to provide for them.”     Highlanders winger Ray Lunga revealed that life was hard for him at the peak of Covid-19.     “It was hard. We are footballers and that’s how we earn our living, through playing football,” Lunga said.        “So for the past year or so, things have been difficult. We were just seated home and the most difficult thing is that we lost a whole year. But I think it came with some lessons, the most important being to also invest wisely in case of these eventualities.     “We are now back on the field and trying hard to get back into shape.”     Tenax winger Dexter Marara revealed that for him Covid-19 was a wakeup call.     “It was hard. Covid-19 was definitely a wake-up call for some of us. We could not train. This is a lesson that as players we need to invest rather than blow earnings,” Marara said.     “I am lucky because I’m also employed somewhere but I now plan to start my own business.”