URBAN grooves music stars have bounced back to the forefront of local music thanks to their new releases which have taken showbiz by storm. Artistes leading the urban grooves renaissance include Rockford “Roki” Josphats, Xtra Large and Alishias “Maskiri” Musimbe.The controversial Maskiri, who is trending with the hits Mbinga from Binga and Muvakidzani, told the Daily News yesterday that God blessed him with the capacity to flourish regardless of the circumstances. “I am certain that God gave me real music talent which will never expire. It is only that I do not blow my own trumpet but the thing is that I am always good at what I do,” a bullish Maskiri said. He said the challenge he faces daily is the fact that people are unable to differentiate between Maskiri the artiste and Maskiri the person.  “Art is all about creativity. I am inspired by what I see and experience in the society but it does not necessarily mean that I subscribe to everything that I sing about,” he said. Another urban artiste who has risen like a phoenix is Roki. Within the last fortnight Roki has dropped three singles which have amplified the tempo of his return to the music scene. Last week Roki dropped a duet with Zim hip-hop star Stunner titled Kudakwashe which was produced by DJ Tamuka, barely 24 hours after he had released a single titled Uchandifunga. Early last week, the urban grooves star unleashed another banger Zviriko.  The award-winning Prince “Oskid” Tapfuma produced   Uchandifunga and Zviriko under Passion Java Records. According to Passion Java Records country manager Denford Saunyama, all has been put in place to help Roki return to the top where he belongs. “We are happy to work with Roki who is one of the most talented musicians in the country. As a studio, our thrust is to uplift musicians using the latest technologies including the latest red cameras. Everything to do with his songs — audio and visuals — was done at Passion Java Records,” Saunyama said. Roki’s song Uchandifunga has attracted over a million hits on social media YouTube in less than a week of release. Another urban grooves band working hard to revive its fortunes is Xtra Large. Early this week, the duo, popularly known as maroja, dropped a new single titled Mhepo, which features award-winning producer MacDonald “Macdee” Chidavaenzi.