ZIMBABWE’S number one business newspaper, The Financial Gazette — in partnership with blue chip investment, savings, insurance, and banking group, Old Mutual (OM) — will this evening crown top performing firms at the prestigious Top Companies Survey awards. The event, which is in its 41st year, will reward outstanding Zimbabwe Stock Exchange (ZSE) performers in the banking and insurance sectors. Modus Media, the publishers of the iconic Pink Paper, said yesterday that tonight’s awards were special even with the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic because of the nature of the event and the inimitable partnership between OM and FinGaz. “Today’s proceedings are about celebrating excellence, governance, profitability and corporate social responsibility. We will also toast to the winning and enduring partnership between two venerable brands — OM and the Pink Paper. “While the financial services group has been celebrating its 175th birthday, under the theme of ‘Doing great things and understanding that things change: but why we maintain and invest in valuable partnerships doesn’t’, Modus — on our part — has been toasting to 52 years of unmatchable partnership with local commerce and industry. “This, therefore, means OM and our multi-platform content company share the common dream and critical goal of building an empowered, resilient and thriving Zimbabwean corporate sector, even in the midst of a pandemic — as witnessed through the 41-year-old Top Companies Survey,” Modus Media MD, Christopher Goko, said. “Just as OM seeks to empower communities through funding support, infrastructure and social investment, among many other things, Modus Media is the undisputed leader when it comes to facilitating and enriching economic discourse in the country. “We salute OM, our panel of judges and all the winners at tonight’s splendid event. May we all, our businesses and country continue to grow from strength to strength,” he added. Invictus Energy managing director, Scott Macmillan, will be the guest of honour at the event. This year’s awards are being held under the theme: ‘From Surviving to Thriving: Reimagining Business after the Pandemic’. The Awards will be held virtually and broadcast on all the social media platforms of OM, The Financial Gazette and the Daily News. Since its launch 41 years ago, the Top Companies survey has proved invaluable in promoting transparency, good corporate governance, ethical conduct and corporate social responsibility. Last year, Econet Wireless was crowned the best performing company on the ZSE, while also scooping the Special Mention Award, which recognises outstanding contributions to a current topical issue. Beverages giant, Delta Corporation, was the first runner-up, while retail group OK Zimbabwe was crowned second runner-up. Delta Corporation also walked away with the Disclosure and Investor Relations Award of the Year. Hospitality firm, African Sun, won the Tangible Investor Returns Award, while the 2020 short-term Insurer of the Year was won by Zimnat Insurance. In the banking sector, pan-African bank, Ecobank, was crowned the best bank, while Nedbank was the runner-up.