POLICE in Harare have launched a manhunt for a gang of robbers who robbed a Kuwadzana Extension woman of her Toyota Quantum worth US$30 000 on Monday. The incident occurred around 9pm at Tiger Quarries Reinham in the capital where five male adults pounced on the 39-year-old lady at a road intersection and seized possession of the vehicle before driving off. “The five men also took with them other valuables after driving with the complainant to a secluded place just on the outskirts of Kuwadzana Extension … the complainant, was coming from her workplace in Eastlea, Harare, driving a Toyota Quantum white and grey in colour,” Harare police spokesperson Tendai Mwanza said. “Whilst at the intersection of Leopold Takawira Street and Samora Machel Avenue, one unknown male person jumped into her vehicle through the left side back window and sat just behind her.  “At that moment, he ordered the complainant to proceed and stop at Total garage at corner Chinhoyi Street and Samora Machel Avenue. “The complainant complied and stopped at the garage. The accused person told one of the touts at the garage that the vehicle was heading to Kuwadzana Extension … Only five male adults got into the vehicle and the complainant was ordered to drive the vehicle.  “Upon arrival at OK Marimba Shops, one of the passengers disembarked, leaving five passengers in the vehicle, including the first accused person.” Mwanza said that the complainant was ordered to turn towards Kuwadzana Extension before one of the accused persons instructed her to stop. “He got out of the car and ran to the driver’s side. At that moment, the other two male adults grabbed the complainant by the neck and pulled her over the seat to the back of the vehicle.  “The accused persons dumped the complainant…. after covering her head with a piece of cloth whilst both legs and hands were tied.  “The other male passenger was left in the vehicle being assaulted as they also demanded money from him.  “The complainant heard her vehicle being driven at high speed, but could not see the direction since her head and eyes were covered. After a while the complainant managed to untie herself and walked towards the direction where she was seeing a nearby light. Upon arrival, she was told by the security guards that the premise belongs to Tiger Quarries.” The security guards assisted her by calling her husband who later took her to ZRP Kuwadzana where she lodged a formal report.