WHILE it is common cause that Zimbabwe is still battling to emerge from the ruinous rule of the late former president Robert Mugabe, there is absolutely no excuse for the second republic to fail, of all the things, to produce national identity cards for its citizens.     The revelation by Home Affairs minister Kazembe Kazembe before a parliamentary committee on Thursday that the country is facing acute shortages of consumables to manufacture polythene-synthetic identity documents (plastic IDs) due to foreign currency challenges is just unfathomable and despicable.     Thousands of citizens are stranded, they don’t have identity documents in a country aspiring to be a middle income economy by 2030. Kazembe had the guts to announce that most of his offices were now issuing waiting pass documents.     He said the situation had resulted from shortage of consumables and non-payment of software licences and dongles which require foreign currency.     “To address the situation, my ministry is planning to conduct a national mobile registration exercise once all logistics are in place. My ministry through the civil registry department is limiting the number of applicants for polythene-synthetic IDs and priority is being given to high school students and urgent cases,” Kazembe said.     While the issue of foreign currency shortages is understandable, one question that any right thinking citizen would probably want answered is whether there are no other alternative sources.     Is it not viable for the government to, for example, contract local companies that produce security materials like phone recharge cards to manufacture plastic identity documents? If as a country, we can sink as low as to resorting to waiting passes for national identity cards which were phased out in 2010 when plastic IDs, made of polythene and synthetic material were introduced, can we ever dream of becoming a middle income economy?     It is time those in the top echelons of government started to think outside the box and ensure that the country does not reverse the gains achieved so far in terms of moving along with technology.     The IDs have the added advantage of being biometric and suspending their production would also affect voter registration ahead of 2023 elections.     One wonders where the leaders of this country intend to take us considering that as it is, hundreds of motorists have not had number plates on their cars owing to a serious shortage. It seems the country is running short of everything and there are no plans to rectify the situation as evidenced by the backlog at passport offices.     Kazembe told Parliament that his ministry was also facing challenges in the processing of passports with the backlog running into over 200 000 dating back to 2019.