OPPOSITION leader Douglas Mwonzora has revealed that the MDC parliamentary caucus will meet today to deliberate on the next move regarding the contentious Constitutional Amendment Bill Number 2.     This comes after MDC parliamentarians who include deputy leader Thokozani Khupe, Nomvula Mguni, Phelela Masuku, and Paurina Mpariwa voted against the amendment.     Some of the provisions in the bill, which is now before the Senate, include the removal of a clause on running mates, extension of the women’s quota as well as the extension of the 70-year retirement cap for judges by another five years.     Mwonzora told journalists at the weekend that his party would seek ways to convince Justice Minister Ziyambi Ziyambi to pluck out some questionable clauses from the bill.     “We are trying dialogue to make sure that those objectionable clauses are removed. We are going to have our meeting on Monday (today), our caucus meeting, and we will make our decision on the way forward as we enter this final phase,” he said.     Mwonzora insisted that the opposition party was not rejecting the bill in its entirety, but was opposed to the scrapping and the amendment of the running mate and judges clauses.     He, however, accused Zanu PF of smuggling some clauses into the bill in Parliament.     “We have voiced our concern about objectionable clauses. Our concerns are reasonable, our concerns are legally grounded; our concerns are sustainable and the choice is there for the… minister to remove those clauses,” he said.     The MDC said if the extension of the term limit for judges is agreed on, it should not benefit the incumbent.     “Where the minister wants to amend a constitution, the exact Bill must be published by the Speaker for a period of 90 days. Now when the Bill was published by the minister, that clause was not there.     “That clause was only smuggled in the national assembly…We find that extremely objectionable and we appeal to Zanu PF and the minister to remove that offending clause which was not in the original bill,” Mwonzora said.