ZIMBABWE Music Rights Association (Zimura) will distribute $23million in royalties to 3300 local musicians starting tomorrow. Zimura deputy director Henry Makombe told the Daily News that the lowest earner set to take home $12 with the highest paid musician taking home over $400 000. He, however, refused to divulge the identity of the musicians but the rumour mill is speculating that music superstar Jah Prayzah could get the biggest cheque. The musicians’ royalties collecting association distributes royalties to its members on June 1 every year  on the basis of the success of songs on the market including on the radio and in public places such as night clubs, among others. In 2020 the association, mandated to protect and promote the rights of musicians, distributed royalties in excess of $4million. “This year we have managed to collect more royalties compared to the previous year and we attribute the increase to the implementation of the US$ rate that we have adopted.  “Our clients are paying in foreign currency or official bank rate equivalent. “Apart from the foreign currency factor, the business sector is expanding hence the demand for music has correspondingly risen,” Makombe said. In the same vein, foreign musicians will share US$30 810 that was collected in the period under review. “The number of foreign members under Zimura runs into millions of composers registered with sister societies the world over,” Makombe said. This year, the state broadcaster ZBC was paid $118. 84 per play while the rate for Star FM and ZiFM Stereo was $19.89 and $12.55, respectively. “Radio stations such as Diamond FM, Nyaminyami FM, Hevoi FM, Capitalk and 98.4 FM could not be included in the June 2021 distribution because of two things — log sheets that were not submitted on time and undistributable money paid,” he said. Last year, ZBC paid $5,31 per play while Star FM paid $0,75.“This year, we have also managed to collect US$4 572 from digital platforms such as Facebook, YouTube and spotify among others,” Makombe said.