DEBUTANT Valentine Kadonzvo wasted no time in making his mark after scoring a brace to guide Ngezi Platinum Stars to a comfortable 3-0 victory over Whawha in a Chibuku Super Cup tie at Mandava Stadium yesterday. Kadonzvo, who joined the platinum miners from Chicken Inn earlier this year, could not make his debut last weekend because of registration complications. The ex-Dynamos striker was only cleared last Thursday and wasted little time when he opened the scoring for Rodwell Dhlakama’s charges after only five minutes into the match before Wellington Taderera doubled their lead on 18 minutes. Kadonzvo got his second five minutes from the break to hand Ngezi their second straight win in as many matches and boost their chances of making it to the knockout stages of the tournament. The win took Ngezi’s tally to six points the same number as FC Platinum, much to the delight of Dhlakama. “What is important is that we managed to win the game but in the second half we did not play with much ball orientation.  “But at the end of the day we picked up three points and we are happy with that,” Dhlakama said after the match. “It’s still early, we can’t say we have qualified. We still need to win two more games. It’s important that we win against FC Platinum in our next match so we are looking forward to that game and we hope that our lads will do well. “We will keep our heads up. We will not look down, we will continue to work hard. For Whawha the defeat was another reminder to their coach Luke Petros on the amount of work on his hands to transform his side into a formidable side in their debut year facing top flight teams. Petros, however, had a lot of positives to draw unlike from their opening match when they were hammered 6-0 by FC Platinum last weekend.    “They did very well especially in the second half. I think we made a lot of errors especially in the first half and we were duly punished for that.  “Some of the goals could have been avoided,” Petros said. “The only thing that we can go and do is to look on the area where we were short and where we need reinforcement.  “I’m happy the youngsters showed a very good attitude during the game ….”